So this is Anna Hazare, and Anna Hazare may well be
the most cutting-edge digital activist in the world today. And you wouldn't know it by looking at him. Hazare is a 77-year-old Indian 
anticorruption and social justice activist. And in 2011, he was running a big campaign to address everyday corruption in India, a topic that Indian elites love to ignore. So as part of this campaign, he was using all of the traditional tactics that a good Gandhian organizer would use. So he was on a hunger strike, and Hazare realized through his hunger that actually maybe this time, in the 21st century, a hunger strike wouldn't be enough. So he started playing around 
with mobile activism. So the first thing he did 
is he said to people, "Okay, why don't you send me a text message if you support my campaign against corruption?" So he does this, he 
gives people a short code, and about 80,000 people do it. Okay, that's pretty respectable. But then he decides, "Let me tweak my tactics a little bit." He says, "Why don't you leave
me a missed call?" Now, for those of you who have
lived in the global South, you'll know that missed calls are a really critical part
of global mobile culture. I see people nodding. People leave missed calls all the time: If you're running late for a meeting and you just want to let them
know that you're on the way, you leave them a missed call. If you're dating someone and 
you just want to say "I miss you" you leave them a missed call. So a note for a dating tip here, in some cultures, if you want to please your lover, you call them and hang up.
(Laughter) So why do people leave missed calls? Well, the reason of course is that they're trying to avoid charges associated with making calls
and sending texts. So when Hazare asked people 
to leave him a missed call, let's have a little guess how 
many people actually did this? Thirty-five million. So this is one of the largest coordinated
actions in human history. It's remarkable. And this reflects the extraordinary strength 
of the emerging Indian middle class and the power that their
mobile phones bring. But he used that, Hazare ended up with this massive 
CSV file of mobile phone numbers, and he used that to deploy real people power on the ground to get hundreds of thousands of
people out on the streets in Delhi to make a national point of 
everyday corruption in India. It's a really striking story. So this is me when I was 12 years old. I hope you see the resemblance. And I was also an activist, and I have been an activist all my life. I had this really funny childhood where I traipsed around the world meeting world leaders and 
Noble prize winners, talking about Third World debt, as it was then called, and demilitarization. I was a very, very serious child.
(Laughter) And back then, in the early '90s, I had a very cutting-edge
tech tool of my own: the fax. And the fax was the 
tool of my activism. And at that time, it was the best way to get a message to a lot of people all at once. I'll give you one example of a fax
campaign that I ran. It was the eve of the Gulf War and I organized a global campaign 
to flood the hotel, the Intercontinental in Geneva, where James Baker and Tariq Aziz were meeting on the eve of the war, and I thought if I could 
flood them with faxes, we'll stop the war. Well, unsurprisingly, that campaign was wholly unsuccessful. There are lots of reasons for that, but there's no doubt that 
one sputtering fax machine in Geneva was a little bit
of a bandwidth constraint in terms of the ability to 
get a message to lots of people. And so, I went on to 
discover some better tools. I cofounded Avaaz, which uses the 
Internet to mobilize people and now has almost 
40 million members, and I now run Purpose, which 
is a home for these kinds of technology-powered movements. So what's the moral of this story? Is the moral of this story,
 you know what, the fax is kind of
eclipsed by the mobile phone? This is another story of 
tech-determinism? Well, I would argue that there's 
actually more to it than that. I'd argue that in the last 20 years, something more fundamental has changed
 than just new tech. I would argue that there has
been a fundamental shift in the balance of power in the world. You ask any activist how 
to understand the world, and they'll say,
"Look at where the power is, who has it, how it's shifting." And I think we all sense that 
something big is happening. 