The great philosopher Aristotle said if something doesn't exist,
there's no word for it, and if there's no word for something, that something doesn't exist. So when we talk about elections, we in established democracies,
we know what we're talking about. We've got the words.
We have the vocabulary. We know what a polling station is. We know what a ballot paper is. But what about countries
where democracy doesn't exist, countries where there are
no words to describe the concepts that underpin a democratic society? I work in the field
of electoral assistance, so that's to say we assist emerging democracies to organize what is often their first elections. When people ask me what I do, quite often I get this answer. "Oh, so you're one of these people
who goes around the world imposing Western democracy
on countries that can't handle it." Well, the United Nations
does not impose anything on anybody. It really doesn't, and also, what we do is firmly anchored in the 1948
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 21, that says that everybody should have the right
to choose who governs them. So that's the basis of the work. I specialize in public outreach. What does that mean? Another jargon. It actually means
designing information campaigns so that candidates and voters who have never had the opportunity
to participate or to vote understand where, when, how to register; where, when, how to vote; why, why it is important to take part. So I'll probably devise a specific
campaign to reach out to women to make sure that they can take part, that they can be part of the process. Young people as well. All sorts of people. Handicapped people. We try to reach everybody. And it's not always easy,
because very often in this work, I've noticed now over the years
that I've been doing it that words are lacking, and so what do you do? Afghanistan. It's a country with
high levels of illiteracy, and the thing about that was,
it was in 2005, and we organized two elections
on the same day. The reason was because the logistics
are so incredibly difficult, it seemed to be more efficient to do that. It was, but on the other hand,
explaining two elections instead of one was even more complicated. So we used a lot of images, and when it came to the actual ballot, we had problems, because
so many people wanted to take part, we had 300 candidates for 52 seats in the Wolesi Jirga,
which is the parliamentary elections. And for the Provincial Council,
we had even more candidates. We had 330 for 54 seats. So talking about ballot design, this is what the ballot looked like. It's the size of a newspaper. This was the Wolesi Jirga ballot -- (Laughter) Yeah, and -- this was the Provincial Council ballot. Even more. So you see, we did use
a lot of symbols and things like that. And we had other problems
in Southern Sudan. Southern Sudan was a very different story. We had so many people
who had never, of course, voted, but we had extremely, extremely
high levels of illiteracy, very, very poor infrastructure. For example -- I mean, it's a country
the size of Texas, more or less. We had seven kilometers of paved roads, seven kilometers in the whole country, and that includes the tarmac
where we landed the planes in Juba Airport. So transporting electoral materials, etc., is exceedingly difficult. People had no idea
about what a box looked like. It was very complicated, so using verbal communication
was obviously the way to go, but there were 132 languages. So that was extremely challenging. Then I arrived in Tunisia in 2011. It was the Arab Spring. A huge amount of hope was generated
by that enormous movement that was going on in the region. There was Libya,
there was Egypt, there was Yemen. It was an enormous, enormous
historical moment. And I was sitting
with the election commission, and we were talking
about various aspects of the election, and I was hearing them using words
that I hadn't actually heard before, and I'd worked with Iraqis,
I'd worked with Jordanians, Egyptians, and suddenly they were using these words, and I just thought, "This is strange." And what really gave rise to it
was this word "observer." We were discussing election observers, and the election commissioner
was talking about "mulahiz" in Arabic. This means "to notice"
in a passive sort of sense, as in, "I noticed
he was wearing a light blue shirt." Did I go and check whether
the shirt was light blue or not? That is the role of an election observer. It's very active, it's governed
by all kinds of treaties, and it has got
that control function in it. And then I got wind
of the fact that in Egypt, 