G'day, my name's Kevin. I'm from Australia. I'm here to help. (Laughter) Tonight, I want to talk about
a tale of two cities. One of those cities is called Washington,
and the other is called Beijing. Because how these two capitals
shape their future and the future of the United States
and the future of China doesn't just affect those two countries, it affects all of us in ways, perhaps, we've never thought of: the air we breathe, the water we drink, the fish we eat,
the quality of our oceans, the languages we speak in the future, the jobs we have,
the political systems we choose, and, of course, the great questions
of war and peace. You see that bloke? He's French. His name is Napoleon. A couple of hundred years ago, he made this extraordinary projection: "China is a sleeping lion,
and when she awakes, the world will shake." Napoleon got a few things wrong; he got this one absolutely right. Because China is today
not just woken up, China has stood up
and China is on the march, and the question for us all is where will China go and how do we engage
this giant of the 21st century? You start looking at the numbers,
they start to confront you in a big way. It's projected that China will become, by whichever measure --
PPP, market exchange rates -- the largest economy in the world over the course of the decade ahead. They're already
the largest trading nation, already the largest exporting nation, already the largest manufacturing nation, and they're also the biggest
emitters of carbon in the world. America comes second. So if China does become
the world's largest economy, think about this: It'll be the first time since this guy was on
the throne of England -- George III, not a good friend
of Napoleon's -- that in the world we will have
as the largest economy a non-English speaking country, a non-Western country, a non-liberal democratic country. And if you don't think
that's going to affect the way in which the world
happens in the future, then personally, I think
you've been smoking something, and it doesn't mean you're from Colorado. So in short, the question
we have tonight is, how do we understand this mega-change, which I believe to be the biggest change
for the first half of the 21st century? It'll affect so many things. It will go to the absolute core. It's happening quietly.
It's happening persistently. It's happening in some senses
under the radar, as we are all preoccupied with what's going in Ukraine,
what's going on in the Middle East, what's going on with ISIS,
what's going on with ISIL, what's happening with
the future of our economies. This is a slow and quiet revolution. And with a mega-change
comes also a mega-challenge, and the mega-challenge is this: Can these two great countries, China and the United States -- China, the Middle Kingdom, and the United States, 