The conventional wisdom
about our world today is that this is a time
of terrible decline. And that's not surprising,
given the bad news all around us, from ISIS to inequality, political dysfunction, climate change, Brexit, and on and on. But here's the thing,
and this may sound a little weird. I actually don't buy
this gloomy narrative, and I don't think you should either. Look, it's not that
I don't see the problems. I read the same headlines that you do. What I dispute is the conclusion
that so many people draw from them, namely that we're all screwed because the problems are unsolvable and our governments are useless. Now, why do I say this? It's not like I'm particularly
optimistic by nature. But something about the media's
constant doom-mongering with its fixation on problems
and not on answers has always really bugged me. So a few years ago I decided, well, I'm a journalist, I should see if I can do any better by going around the world
and actually asking folks if and how they've tackled their big economic
and political challenges. And what I found astonished me. It turns out that there are remarkable
signs of progress out there, often in the most unexpected places, and they've convinced me
that our great global challenges may not be so unsolvable after all. Not only are there theoretical fixes; those fixes have been tried. They've worked. And they offer hope for the rest of us. I'm going to show you what I mean by telling you about
how three of the countries I visited -- Canada, Indonesia and Mexico -- overcame three supposedly
impossible problems. Their stories matter because they contain
tools the rest of us can use, and not just for those
particular problems, but for many others, too. When most people think
about my homeland, Canada, today, if they think about Canada at all, they think cold, they think boring,
they think polite. They think we say "sorry" too much
in our funny accents. And that's all true. (Laughter) Sorry. (Laughter) But Canada's also important because of its triumph over a problem currently tearing
many other countries apart: immigration. Consider, Canada today is among
the world's most welcoming nations, even compared to other
immigration-friendly countries. Its per capita immigration rate
is four times higher than France's, and its percentage
of foreign-born residents is double that of Sweden. Meanwhile, Canada admitted 10 times more Syrian refugees
in the last year than did the United States. (Applause) And now Canada is taking even more. And yet, if you ask Canadians what makes them proudest of their country, they rank "multiculturalism," a dirty word in most places, second, ahead of hockey. Hockey. (Laughter) In other words,
at a time when other countries are now frantically building
new barriers to keep foreigners out, Canadians want even more of them in. Now, here's the really interesting part. Canada wasn't always like this. Until the mid-1960s, Canada followed
an explicitly racist immigration policy. They called it "White Canada," and as you can see, they were not
just talking about the snow. So how did that Canada
become today's Canada? Well, despite what my mom
in Ontario will tell you, the answer had nothing to do with virtue. Canadians are not inherently
better than anyone else. The real explanation involves the man
who became Canada's leader in 1968, Pierre Trudeau, who is also
the father of the current prime minister. (Applause) The thing to know about that first Trudeau is that he was very different
from Canada's previous leaders. He was a French speaker in a country
long-dominated by its English elite. He was an intellectual. He was even kind of groovy. I mean, seriously, the guy did yoga. He hung out with the Beatles. (Laughter) And like all hipsters,
he could be infuriating at times. But he nevertheless pulled off one of the most progressive
transformations any country has ever seen. His formula, I've learned,
involved two parts. First, Canada threw out
its old race-based immigration rules, and it replaced them
with new color-blind ones that emphasized education,
experience and language skills instead. And what that did
was greatly increase the odds that newcomers would
contribute to the economy. Then part two, Trudeau
created the world's first policy of official multiculturalism
to promote integration and the idea that diversity
was the key to Canada's identity. Now, in the years that followed,
Ottawa kept pushing this message, but at the same time, ordinary Canadians soon started to see the economic,
the material benefits of multiculturalism all around them. And these two influences soon combined to create the passionately
open-minded Canada of today. Let's now turn to another country
and an even tougher problem, Islamic extremism. In 1998, the people of Indonesia
took to the streets and overthrew
their longtime dictator, Suharto. It was an amazing moment, but it was also a scary one. With 250 million people, Indonesia is the largest
Muslim-majority country on Earth. It's also hot, huge and unruly, made up of 17,000 islands, where people speak
close to a thousand languages. Now, Suharto had been a dictator, and a nasty one. But he'd also been
a pretty effective tyrant, and he'd always been careful
to keep religion out of politics. So experts feared that without
him keeping a lid on things, the country would explode, or religious extremists would take over and turn Indonesia
into a tropical version of Iran. And that's just what seemed
to happen at first. In the country's
first free elections, in 1999, Islamist parties scored
36 percent of the vote, and the islands burned as riots and terror attacks
killed thousands. Since then, however,
Indonesia has taken a surprising turn. While ordinary folks have grown
more pious on a personal level -- I saw a lot more headscarves
on a recent visit than I would have a decade ago -- the country's politics
have moved in the opposite direction. Indonesia is now
a pretty decent democracy. And yet, its Islamist parties
have steadily lost support, from a high of about 38 percent in 2004 down to 25 percent in 2014. As for terrorism, it's now extremely rare. And while a few Indonesians
have recently joined ISIS, their number is tiny, far fewer in per capita terms than the number of Belgians. Try to think of one other
Muslim-majority country that can say all those same things. In 2014, I went to Indonesia
to ask its current president, a soft-spoken technocrat
named Joko Widodo, "Why is Indonesia thriving when
so many other Muslim states are dying?" "Well, what we realized," he told me, "is that to deal with extremism,
we needed to deal with inequality first." See, Indonesia's religious parties,
like similar parties elsewhere, had tended to focus on things like
reducing poverty and cutting corruption. So that's what Joko
and his predecessors did too, thereby stealing the Islamists' thunder. They also cracked down hard on terrorism, but Indonesia's democrats
have learned a key lesson from the dark years of dictatorship, namely that repression
only creates more extremism. So they waged their war
with extraordinary delicacy. They used the police instead of the army. They only detained suspects
if they had enough evidence. They held public trials. They even sent
liberal imams into the jails to persuade the jihadists
that terror is un-Islamic. And all of this paid off
in spectacular fashion, creating the kind of country
that was unimaginable 20 years ago. So at this point,
my optimism should, I hope, be starting to make a bit more sense. Neither immigration nor Islamic extremism
are impossible to deal with. Join me now on one last trip, this time to Mexico. Now, of our three stories,
this one probably surprised me the most, since as you all know, the country is still struggling
with so many problems. And yet, a few years ago,
Mexico did something that many other countries
from France to India to the United States can still only dream of. It shattered the political paralysis
that had gripped it for years. To understand how,
we need to rewind to the year 2000, when Mexico finally became a democracy. Rather than use their new freedoms
to fight for reform, Mexico's politicians used them
to fight one another. Congress deadlocked,
and the country's problems -- drugs, poverty, crime, corruption -- spun out of control. Things got so bad that in 2008, the Pentagon warned
that Mexico risked collapse. 