Tonight, I'm going to share with you
my passion for science. I'm not talking about science
that takes baby steps. I'm talking about science
that takes enormous leaps. I'm talking Darwin, I'm talking Einstein, I'm talking revolutionary science
that turns the world on its head. In a moment, I'm going to talk
about two ideas that might do this. I say "might" because, with revolutionary ideas,
most are flat wrong, and even those that are right
seldom have the impact that we want them to have. To explain why I picked
two ideas in particular, I'm going to start with a mystery. 1847, Vienna, Austria. Ignaz Semmelweis was a somber,
compulsively thorough doctor who ran two maternity clinics. They were identical except for one thing. Women were dying of high fevers
soon after giving birth three times more often
at one of the clinics than at the other. Trying to figure out
what the difference was that caused this, Semmelweis looked at everything he could. Sanitation? No. Medical procedures? No. Air flow? No. The puzzle went unsolved
until he happened to autopsy a doctor who died of an infected scalpel cut. The doctor's symptoms were identical
to those of the mothers who were dying. How was that possible? How could a male doctor
get the same thing as new mothers? Semmelweis reconstructed
everything the doctor had done right before he got sick, and he discovered
that he'd been autopsying a corpse. Had something gotten
in his wound that killed him? With growing excitement, Semmelweis looked
for any connection he could between dead bodies in the morgue
and dead mothers in his delivery room, and he found it. It turned out that at the hospital
with the high death rate, but not the others, doctors delivered babies immediately
after autopsying corpses in the morgue. Aha! Corpses were contaminating
the doctors' hands and killing his mothers. So he ordered the doctors
to sterilize their hands, and the deaths stopped. Dr. Ignaz Semmelweis
had discovered infectious disease. But the doctors of the day
thought he was crazy, because they knew,
and had for hundreds of years, that odorous vapors
called miasmas caused disease, not these hypothetical particles
that you couldn't see. It took 20 years
for Frenchman Louis Pasteur to prove that Semmelweis was right. Pasteur was an agricultural chemist who tried to figure out
why milk and beer spoiled so often. He found that bacteria were the culprits. He also found that bacteria
could kill people in exactly the same way that Semmelweis's patients were dying. We now look at what I want
to talk about tonight, in two ideas. We saw it with Semmelweis,
that he was a revolutionary. He did it for two reasons. One, he opened our eyes
to a completely new world. We'd known since the 1680s about bacteria. We just didn't know
that bacteria killed people. And he also demolished fond ideas
that people kept close to their heart. Miasmas didn't kill people.
Bacteria killed people. So this brings me to the two ideas
I want to talk about tonight. One has opened our eyes
to a completely new universe, and the other attacks long-held beliefs. Let's get started with Dr. Eric Betzig. He's a physicist who has opened our eyes
to an entirely new world by violating the laws of physics. Betzig is a true rebel. He quit a job at prestigious
Bell Laboratory inventing new microscopes for biology because he thought scientists
were taking his brilliant inventions and doing lousy work with them. So he became a househusband, but he never lost his passion
for figuring out how to get microscopes
to see finer and finer details than had ever been seen before
or ever could be seen. This is crucial if we're ever
going to understand how cells work, and how cancer works, and how something
150th the size of a head of a pin can do all these amazing things, like make proteins and move charges around and all of those things. There's just one problem. There's this thing
called the law of physics, and part of the law of physics
is the thing called the diffraction limit. The diffraction limit is kind of like
when you go to a doctor's office, you can only see so far down,
no matter how good glasses you have. This was a so-called impossible problem. But one of Betzig's friends
figured out how to take a tiny molecule that was smaller than
the best microscope could see and get it to light up and fluoresce. "Aha!" Betzig said. "I think maybe the laws of physics
are not so unbreakable after all." So he lashed together a microscope
in his friend's living room. He had no laboratory. This revolutionary instrument
got different protein molecules to light up in different colors, and with a computer, he was able
to turn very, very fuzzy blurs into very sharp dots and produce images
of unprecedented and startling clarity. For this work, last year, Eric Betzig won the Nobel Prize. Why? Because now we can see
with unprecedented detail things that we never had seen before, and now doctors can get
a better handle on things like cancer. But do you think
Betzig was satisfied there? No. He wanted movies. The problem was that even the genius microscopes
that he invented were just too slow. So what did he do? He came up with a 200-year-old idea 