I am British. (Laughter) (Applause) Never before has the phrase
"I am British" elicited so much pity. (Laughter) I come from an island
where many of us like to believe there's been a lot of continuity
over the last thousand years. We tend to have historically
imposed change on others but done much less of it ourselves. So it came as an immense shock to me when I woke up on the morning of June 24 to discover that my country
had voted to leave the European Union, my Prime Minister had resigned, and Scotland was considering a referendum that could bring to an end
the very existence of the United Kingdom. So that was an immense shock for me, and it was an immense
shock for many people, but it was also something
that, over the following several days, created a complete political meltdown in my country. There were calls for a second referendum, almost as if, following a sports match, we could ask the opposition for a replay. Everybody was blaming everybody else. People blamed the Prime Minister for calling the referendum
in the first place. They blamed the leader of the opposition
for not fighting it hard enough. The young accused the old. The educated blamed
the less well-educated. That complete meltdown was made even worse by the most tragic element of it: levels of xenophobia and racist abuse
in the streets of Britain at a level that I have never seen before in my lifetime. People are now talking about whether
my country is becoming a Little England, or, as one of my colleagues put it, whether we're about to become
a 1950s nostalgia theme park floating in the Atlantic Ocean. (Laughter) But my question is really, should we have the degree of shock
that we've experienced since? Was it something
that took place overnight? Or are there deeper structural factors
that have led us to where we are today? So I want to take a step back
and ask two very basic questions. First, what does Brexit represent, not just for my country, but for all of us around the world? And second, what can we do about it? How should we all respond? So first, what does Brexit represent? Hindsight is a wonderful thing. Brexit teaches us many things
about our society and about societies around the world. It highlights in ways
that we seem embarrassingly unaware of how divided our societies are. The vote split along lines of age,
education, class and geography. Young people didn't turn out
to vote in great numbers, but those that did wanted to remain. Older people really wanted
to leave the European Union. Geographically, it was London and Scotland
that most strongly committed to being part of the European Union, while in other parts of the country
there was very strong ambivalence. Those divisions are things we really
need to recognize and take seriously. But more profoundly,
the vote teaches us something about the nature of politics today. Contemporary politics
is no longer just about right and left. It's no longer just about tax and spend. It's about globalization. The fault line of contemporary politics is
between those that embrace globalization and those that fear globalization. (Applause) If we look at why
those who wanted to leave -- we call them "Leavers,"
as opposed to "Remainers" -- we see two factors in the opinion polls that really mattered. The first was immigration,
and the second sovereignty, and these represent a desire for people
to take back control of their own lives and the feeling that they
are unrepresented by politicians. But those ideas are ones
that signify fear and alienation. They represent a retreat
back towards nationalism and borders in ways that many of us would reject. What I want to suggest is the picture
is more complicated than that, that liberal internationalists, like myself, and I firmly
include myself in that picture, need to write ourselves
back into the picture in order to understand
how we've got to where we are today. When we look at the voting patterns
across the United Kingdom, we can visibly see the divisions. The blue areas show Remain and the red areas Leave. When I looked at this, what personally struck me
was the very little time in my life I've actually spent
in many of the red areas. I suddenly realized that,
looking at the top 50 areas in the UK that have the strongest Leave vote, I've spent a combined total
of four days of my life in those areas. In some of those places, I didn't even know the names
of the voting districts. It was a real shock to me, and it suggested that people like me who think of ourselves
as inclusive, open and tolerant, perhaps don't know
our own countries and societies nearly as well as we like to believe. (Applause) And the challenge that comes from that
is we need to find a new way to narrate globalization to those people, to recognize that for those people who
have not necessarily been to university, who haven't necessarily
grown up with the Internet, that don't get opportunities to travel, they may be unpersuaded
by the narrative that we find persuasive in our often liberal bubbles. (Applause) It means that we need to reach out
more broadly and understand. In the Leave vote, a minority have peddled
the politics of fear and hatred, creating lies and mistrust around, for instance,
the idea that the vote on Europe could reduce the number of refugees
and asylum-seekers coming to Europe, when the vote on leaving
had nothing to do with immigration from outside the European Union. But for a significant majority
of the Leave voters the concern was disillusionment
with the political establishment. This was a protest vote for many, a sense that nobody represented them, that they couldn't find
a political party that spoke for them, and so they rejected
that political establishment. This replicates around Europe
and much of the liberal democratic world. We see it with the rise in popularity
of Donald Trump in the United States, 