Clouds. Have you ever noticed how much
people moan about them? They get a bad rap. If you think about it,
the English language has written into it negative
associations towards the clouds. Someone who's down or depressed, they're under a cloud. And when there's bad news in store, there's a cloud on the horizon. I saw an article the other day. It was about problems
with computer processing over the Internet. "A cloud over the cloud,"
was the headline. It seems like they're everyone's default doom-and-gloom metaphor. But I think they're beautiful, don't you? It's just that their beauty is missed because they're so omnipresent, so, I don't know, commonplace, that people don't notice them. They don't notice the beauty,
but they don't even notice the clouds unless they get in the way of the sun. And so people think of clouds as things that get in the way. They think of them as the annoying,
frustrating obstructions, and then they rush off and do
some blue-sky thinking. (Laughter) But most people, when
you stop to ask them, will admit to harboring a strange
sort of fondness for clouds. It's like a nostalgic fondness, and they make them think of their youth. Who here can't remember thinking, well, looking and finding shapes in the clouds when they were kids? You know, when you were
masters of daydreaming? Aristophanes, the ancient
Greek playwright, he described the clouds
as the patron godesses of idle fellows two and a half thousand years ago, and you can see what he means. It's just that these days,
us adults seem reluctant to allow ourselves the indulgence of just allowing our imaginations to drift along in the breeze,
and I think that's a pity. I think we should perhaps
do a bit more of it. I think we should be a bit
more willing, perhaps, to look at the beautiful sight
of the sunlight bursting out from behind the clouds
and go, "Wait a minute, that's two cats dancing the salsa!" (Laughter) (Applause) Or seeing the big, white,
puffy one up there over the shopping center looks like the Abominable Snowman
going to rob a bank. (Laughter) They're like nature's version
of those inkblot images, you know, that shrinks used
to show their patients in the '60s, and I think if you consider
the shapes you see in the clouds, you'll save money on psychoanalysis bills. Let's say you're in love. All right? And you look up and what do you see? Right? Or maybe the opposite. You've just been dumped by your partner, and everywhere you look,
it's kissing couples. (Laughter) Perhaps you're having a moment
of existential angst. You know, you're thinking
about your own mortality. And there, on the horizon,
it's the Grim Reaper. (Laughter) Or maybe you see a topless sunbather. (Laughter) What would that mean? What would that mean? I have no idea. But one thing I do know is this: The bad press that clouds
get is totally unfair. I think we should stand up for them, which is why, a few years ago, I started the Cloud Appreciation Society. Tens of thousands of members now in almost 100 countries around the world. And all these photographs
that I'm showing, they were sent in by members. And the society exists
to remind people of this: Clouds are not something to moan about. Far from it. They are, in fact, the most diverse, evocative,
poetic aspect of nature. I think, if you live
with your head in the clouds every now and then, it helps you
keep your feet on the ground. And I want to show you
why, with the help of some of my favorite types of clouds. Let's start with this one.
It's the cirrus cloud, named after the Latin for a lock of hair. It's composed entirely of ice crystals cascading from the upper
reaches of the troposphere, and as these ice crystals fall, they pass through different
layers with different winds and they speed up and slow down, giving the cloud these
brush-stroked appearances, these brush-stroke forms
known as fall streaks. And these winds up there
can be very, very fierce. They can be 200 miles
an hour, 300 miles an hour. These clouds are bombing along, but from all the way down here, they appear to be moving
gracefully, slowly, like most clouds. And so to tune into the clouds
is to slow down, to calm down. It's like a bit of everyday meditation. Those are common clouds. What about rarer ones,
like the lenticularis, the UFO-shaped lenticularis cloud? These clouds form
in the region of mountains. When the wind passes, rises
to pass over the mountain, it can take on a wave-like
path in the lee of the peak, with these clouds hovering at the crest of these invisible standing waves of air, these flying saucer-like forms, and some of the early
black-and-white UFO photos are in fact lenticularis clouds.
It's true. A little rarer are the fallstreak holes.
All right? This is when a layer is made
up of very, very cold water droplets, and in one region
they start to freeze, and this freezing sets off a chain
reaction which spreads outwards with the ice crystals cascading
and falling down below, giving the appearance
of jellyfish tendrils down below. 