Most of us go through life trying
to do our best at whatever we do, whether it's our job, family, school or anything else. I feel that way. I try my best. But some time ago, I came to a realization that I wasn't getting much better
at the things I cared most about, whether it was being a husband or a friend or a professional or teammate, and I wasn't improving
much at those things even though I was spending a lot of time working hard at them. I've since realized from conversations
I've had and from research that this stagnation, despite hard work, turns out to be pretty common. So I'd like to share with you
some insights into why that is and what we can all do about it. What I've learned
is that the most effective people and teams in any domain do something we can all emulate. They go through life deliberately
alternating between two zones: the learning zone
and the performance zone. The learning zone
is when our goal is to improve. Then we do activities
designed for improvement, concentrating on what
we haven't mastered yet, which means we have to expect
to make mistakes, knowing that we will learn from them. That is very different from what we do
when we're in our performance zone, which is when our goal is to do something
as best as we can, to execute. Then we concentrate
on what we have already mastered and we try to minimize mistakes. Both of these zones
should be part of our lives, but being clear about
when we want to be in each of them, with what goal, focus and expectations, helps us better perform
and better improve. The performance zone maximizes
our immediate performance, while the learning zone
maximizes our growth and our future performance. The reason many of us don't improve much despite our hard work is that we tend to spend almost
all of our time in the performance zone. This hinders our growth, and ironically, over the long term,
also our performance. So what does the learning zone look like? Take Demosthenes, a political leader and the greatest orator
and lawyer in ancient Greece. To become great,
he didn't spend all his time just being an orator or a lawyer, which would be his performance zone. But instead, he did activities
designed for improvement. Of course, he studied a lot. He studied law and philosophy
with guidance from mentors, but he also realized that being a lawyer
involved persuading other people, so he also studied great speeches and acting. To get rid of an odd habit he had
of involuntarily lifting his shoulder, he practiced his speeches
in front of a mirror, and he suspended a sword from the ceiling so that if he raised his shoulder, it would hurt. (Laughter) To speak more clearly despite a lisp, he went through his speeches
with stones in his mouth. He built an underground room where he could practice
without interruptions and not disturb other people. And since courts at the time
were very noisy, he also practiced by the ocean, projecting his voice
above the roar of the waves. His activities in the learning zone were very different
from his activities in court, his performance zone. In the learning zone, he did what Dr. Anders Ericsson
calls deliberate practice. This involves breaking down
abilities into component skills, being clear about what subskill
we're working to improve, like keeping our shoulders down, giving full concentration
to a high level of challenge outside our comfort zone, just beyond what we can currently do, using frequent feedback
with repetition and adjustments, and ideally engaging the guidance
of a skilled coach, because activities
designed for improvement are domain-specific, and great teachers and coaches
know what those activities are and can also give us expert feedback. It is this type of practice
in the learning zone which leads to substantial improvement, not just time on task performing. For example, research shows
that after the first couple of years working in a profession, performance usually plateaus. This has been shown to be true
in teaching, general medicine, nursing and other fields, and it happens because once we think
we have become good enough, adequate, then we stop spending time
in the learning zone. We focus all our time
on just doing our job, performing, which turns out not to be
a great way to improve. But the people who continue
to spend time in the learning zone do continue to always improve. The best salespeople at least once a week do activities with
the goal of improvement. They read to extend their knowledge, consult with colleagues or domain experts, try out new strategies,
solicit feedback and reflect. The best chess players spend a lot of time
not playing games of chess, which would be their performance zone, but trying to predict the moves
grand masters made and analyzing them. Each of us has probably spent
many, many, many hours typing on a computer without getting faster, but if we spent 10 to 20 minutes each day fully concentrating
on typing 10 to 20 percent faster than our current reliable speed, we would get faster, especially if we also identified
what mistakes we're making and practiced typing those words. That's deliberate practice. In what other parts of our lives, perhaps that we care more about, are we working hard but not improving much because we're always
in the performance zone? Now, this is not to say
that the performance zone has no value. It very much does. When I needed a knee surgery,
I didn't tell the surgeon, "Poke around in there
and focus on what you don't know." (Laughter) "We'll learn from your mistakes!" I looked for a surgeon
who I felt would do a good job, and I wanted her to do a good job. Being in the performance zone allows us to get things done
as best as we can. It can also be motivating, and it provides us with information
to identify what to focus on next when we go back to the learning zone. So the way to high performance is to alternate between the learning zone
and the performance zone, purposefully building our skills
in the learning zone, then applying those skills
in the performance zone. 