Music is the most universal
language that we have, way more so than any dialect or tongue. You can play a melody to a child in China and the same melody
to a child in South Africa. And despite the huge differences
between those two children, they will still draw some of the same
truths from that melody. Now, I think the reason why
music has this universality, this way of speaking
to each and every one of us, is that somehow it's capable
of holding up a mirror to us that reveals, in some small or large way, a little bit of who or what we are. By logical extension of this, if music is this universal force, then surely groups of musicians --
let's call them orchestras -- should reflect every aspect
of the community. Logical, but not necessarily true. At TEDxBrussels today, we've been looking
forward to the future -- 50 years from now. Well, I'm going to ask you
to go in the other direction for a minute, to come back with me
50 years into the past, the early 1960s to be precise. And if you took a look
at all the great orchestras of the world at that time, a snapshot, how many women do you think you would find playing in those orchestras? The answer: virtually none. Well, here we are 50 years on, in 2011, and pretty much
every orchestra on the planet has a fantastic and healthy balance
between the sexes. "Of course!" I hear you
say, "Totally logical." But how about another aspect
of the community? The disabled community. Do we find them well-represented
in the great orchestras of our world? Well, I can tell you as a conductor, I work with orchestras
around the world all the time, and I can count on the fingers of one hand the number of disabled
musicians I've encountered in any orchestra, anywhere. Why is this? You can't tell me that there
aren't millions upon millions of prodigiously gifted musicians
of disability around the world. Where is their platform? Where is the infrastructure
that creates a space for them so that they can collaborate
with other great musicians? So, ladies and gentlemen,
as you can probably tell, I'm on a bit of a mission. And this mission has
a personal root to it. I have four children, the youngest of whom
was born with cerebral palsy. She's now five, and through
her glorious existence, I suppose I have now become
a fully paid-up member of the amazing, dizzyingly wonderful
disabled community. And I find myself looking
at the Paralympics and thinking what
an incredible model that is. It's taken a good five decades, actually, but I can say with hand on heart that when the Paralympics
comes to London next year, there will not be an intelligent
person anywhere on the planet who does not absolutely believe
in the validity of disabled sportspeople. What an amazing position to be in! So, ladies and gentlemen,
where the hell is music in all this? Apologies to any of you
who are sports fans, but music is far more
universal than sport. Where is the platform?
Where is their voice? So, we in the UK are at the very early
stages in forming what will be Britain's first-ever
national disabled orchestra. We are going to call it
the British Paraorchestra, because with the world's eyes
on London next year and particularly on the Paralympics, we want to throw down the gauntlet to every single other country
that is represented there, to say to them, "Here's our paraorchestra. Where's yours?" Every country should have
a multiplicity of paraorchestras of all shapes and sizes, no question. Now, today is a very special day for me, because it is the first time
that the first four members of my little embryonic paraorchestra are going to play in public; four extraordinary musicians
of which the number will grow and grow. I hope in the end the Paraorchestra
could even be as big as 50 musicians. We present to you today
a little sonic adventure, a little piece of improvisational
whimsy, if you like, a piece on which, of course,
the ink is still wet, the clay is still wet. After all, improvisation
is never a fixed thing. We decided what we wanted
to share with you, at the heart of our improvisation, was a tune which is beloved
of British people. It's one of the only folk melodies that we still recognize in our culture. And here's an interesting thing:
folk music can tell you an awful lot about the cultural DNA of the country
from which it originates. You see, we in Britain
are quietly melancholic. You know, the rain ... it does rain. The food's not so good. (Laughter) Quietly melancholic. Not blackly so, just quietly so. And as Shakespeare put it so
brilliantly in "Twelfth Night," he loves music that has "a dying fall." So this melody, "Greensleeves,"
is chock-full of "dying fall." You may know this tune. (Singing) Da, da, da da da da, dying fall. (Laughter) Da da da, da da da da, dying fall. Da dee, da da na na ... dying fall ...
na na nee, na ah ah ah ah. Brief burst of sunshine, ladies
and gentlemen, the chorus -- (Singing) Ya da da da, dying fall ... (Laughter) (Singing) Da da dee,
da da da da, dying fall ... Ya da da da, dying fall ... OK? It's like we need some melodic Viagra
in our culture, ladies and gentlemen. (Laughter) (Applause) It goes without saying that we are very much
at the starting gates with this project. We need your help, we need
the global community to help us deliver this dream, so that this orchestra
can be full steam ahead by summer 2012. If you think there's any way 
that you can help us, please, please, get in touch. And so, ladies and gentlemen, it gives
me enormous pride, pleasure and joy to introduce to you,
with a short improvisation upon that most melancholic
tune, "Greensleeves," the first four members
of the British Paraorchestra. (Applause) (Cheers) (Music) (Applause) (Cheers) (Applause) 