So my name is Amy Webb, and a few years ago
I found myself at the end of yet another fantastic relationship that came burning down
in a spectacular fashion. And I thought, what's wrong with me? I don't understand
why this keeps happening. So I asked everybody in my life
what they thought. I turned to my grandmother,
who always had plenty of advice, and she said, "Stop being so picky. You've got to date around. And most importantly, true love will find you
when you least expect it." Now as it turns out, I'm somebody who thinks a lot about data, as you'll soon find. I am constantly swimming
in numbers, formulas and charts. I also have a very tight-knit family, and I'm very, very close with my sister, and as a result, I wanted to have
the same type of family when I grew up. So I'm at the end of this bad breakup, I'm 30 years old, I figure I'm probably going to have
to date somebody for about six months before I'm ready to get monogamous and before we can sort of cohabitate, and we have to do that
for a while before we can get engaged. And if I want to start having children
by the time I'm 35, that meant that I would have
had to have been on my way to marriage five years ago. So that wasn't going to work. If my strategy was to least-expect
my way into true love, then the variable that I had
to deal with was serendipity. In short, I was trying to figure out what's the probability
of my finding Mr. Right? Well, at the time I was living
in the city of Philadelphia, and it's a big city, and I figured, in this entire place,
there are lots of possibilities. So again, I started doing some math. Population of Philadelphia:
it has 1.5 million people. I figure about half of that are men, so that takes the number down to 750,000. I'm looking for a guy
between the ages of 30 and 36, which was only four percent
of the population, so now I'm dealing
with the possibility of 30,000 men. I was looking for somebody who was Jewish, because I am and that was important to me. That's only 2.3 percent of the population. I figure I'm attracted to maybe
one out of 10 of those men, and there was no way I was going to deal
with somebody who was an avid golfer. So that basically meant
there were 35 men for me that I could possibly date in the entire city of Philadelphia. In the meantime,
my very large Jewish family was already all married
and well on their way to having lots and lots of children, and I felt like I was
under tremendous peer pressure to get my life going already. So I have two possible
strategies at this point I'm sort of figuring out. One, I can take my grandmother's advice and sort of least-expect my way into maybe bumping into the one
out of 35 possible men in the entire 1.5-million-person
city of Philadelphia, or I could try online dating. Now, I like the idea of online dating, because it's predicated on an algorithm, and that's really just
a simple way of saying I've got a problem,
I'm going to use some data, run it through a system
and get to a solution. So online dating is the second
most popular way that people now meet each other, but as it turns out,
algorithms have been around for thousands of years
in almost every culture. In fact, in Judaism,
there were matchmakers a long time ago, and though they didn't have
an explicit algorithm per se, they definitely were running
through formulas in their heads, like, is the girl going to like the boy? Are the families going to get along? What's the rabbi going to say? Are they going to start
having children right away? The matchmaker would sort
of think through all of this, put two people together,
and that would be the end of it. So in my case, I thought, well, will data and an algorithm
lead me to my Prince Charming? So I decided to sign on. Now, there was one small catch. As I'm signing on to the various
dating websites, as it happens, I was really, really busy. But that actually
wasn't the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that I hate
filling out questionnaires of any kind, and I certainly don't like questionnaires
that are like Cosmo quizzes. 