It was April, last year. I was on an evening out with friends to celebrate one of their birthdays. We hadn't been all together
for a couple of weeks; it was a perfect evening,
as we were all reunited. At the end of the evening, I caught the last underground train
back to the other side of London. The journey was smooth. I got back to my local station and I began the 10-minute walk home. As I turned the corner onto my street, my house in sight up ahead, I heard footsteps behind me that seemed to have
approached out of nowhere and were picking up pace. Before I had time to process
what was happening, a hand was clapped around my mouth
so that I could not breathe, and the young man behind me
dragged me to the ground, beat my head repeatedly
against the pavement until my face began to bleed, kicking me in the back and neck while he began to assault me, ripping off my clothes
and telling me to "shut up," as I struggled to cry for help. With each smack of my head
to the concrete ground, a question echoed through my mind
that still haunts me today: "Is this going to be how it all ends?" Little could I have realized,
I'd been followed the whole way from the moment I left the station. And hours later, I was standing topless and barelegged
in front of the police, having the cuts and bruises
on my naked body photographed for forensic evidence. Now, there are few words to describe
the all-consuming feelings of vulnerability, shame, upset
and injustice that I was ridden with in that moment and for the weeks to come. But wanting to find a way
to condense these feelings into something ordered
that I could work through, I decided to do what
felt most natural to me: I wrote about it. It started out as a cathartic exercise. I wrote a letter to my assaulter, humanizing him as "you," to identify him as part
of the very community that he had so violently
abused that night. Stressing the tidal-wave
effect of his actions, I wrote: "Did you ever think
of the people in your life? I don't know who the people
in your life are. I don't know anything about you. But I do know this: you did not just attack me that night. I'm a daughter, I'm a friend, I'm a sister, I'm a pupil, I'm a cousin, I'm a niece, I'm a neighbor; I'm the employee
who served everyone coffee 