I'm going to take you
on a journey very quickly. To explain the wish, I'm going
to have to take you somewhere where many people haven't been,
and that's around the world. When I was about 24 years old, Kate Stohr
and myself started an organization to get architects and designers
involved in humanitarian work, not only about responding
to natural disasters, but involved in systemic issues. We believe that where the resources
and expertise are scarce, innovative, sustainable design can really
make a difference in people's lives. So I started my life as an architect,
or training as an architect, and I was always interested
in socially responsible design, and how you can really make an impact. But when I went to architecture school, it seemed that I was
a black sheep in the family. Many architects seemed to think
that when you design, you design a jewel, and it's a jewel
that you try and crave for; whereas I felt that when you design, you either improve
or you create a detriment to the community
in which you're designing. So you're not just doing
a building for the residents or for the people who are going to use it,
but for the community as a whole. And in 1999, we started by responding
to the issue of the housing crisis for returning refugees in Kosovo. And I didn't know what I was doing --
like I said, mid-20s -- and I'm the Internet generation,
so we started a website. We put a call out there,
and to my surprise, in a couple of months, we had hundreds of entries
from around the world. That led to a number
of prototypes being built and really experimenting with some ideas. Two years later we started doing a project on developing mobile health clinics
in sub-Saharan Africa, responding to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. That led to 550 entries from 53 countries. We also have designers
from around the world that participate. And we had an exhibit
of work that followed that. 2004 was the tipping point for us. We started responding to natural disasters and getting involved in Iran, in Bam, also following up on our work in Africa. Working within the United States -- most people look at poverty
and they see the face of a foreigner. But I live in Bozeman, Montana -- go up to the north plains
on the reservations, or go down to Alabama
or Mississippi, pre-Katrina, and I could have shown you
places that have far worse conditions than many developing countries
that I've been to. So we got involved in and worked
in inner cities and elsewhere; and also, I will go into
some more projects. 2005: Mother Nature kicked our ass. I think we can pretty much assume
that 2005 was a horrific year when it comes to natural disasters. And because of the Internet, and because of connections
to blogs and so forth, within literally hours of the tsunami,
we were already raising funds, getting involved, working
with people on the ground. We run from a couple of laptops,
and in the first couple of days, I had 4,000 emails
from people needing help. So we began to get involved
in projects there, and I'll talk about some others. And then of course, this year
we've been responding to Katrina, as well as following up
on our reconstruction work. So this is a brief overview. In 2004, I really couldn't manage
the number of people who wanted to help, or the number of requests
that I was getting. It was all coming
into my laptop and cell phone. So we decided to embrace
an open-source model of business -- so that anyone, anywhere in the world,
could start a local chapter, and they can get involved
in local problems. Because I believe there
is no such thing as Utopia. All problems are local.
All solutions are local. So that means, you know,
somebody who's based in Mississippi knows more about Mississippi than I do. So what happened is, we used Meetup
and all these other Internet tools, and we ended up having
40 chapters starting up, thousands of architects in 104 countries. So the bullet point --
sorry, I never do a suit, so I knew that I was going
to take this off. OK, because I'm going to do it very quick. This isn't just about nonprofit. What it showed me is that
there's a grassroots movement going on, of socially responsible designers
who really believe that this world has got a lot smaller,
and that we have the opportunity -- not the responsibility,
but the opportunity -- to really get involved in making change. (Laughter) (Laughter) I'm adding that to my time. (Laughter) So what you don't know is, we've got these thousands of designers
working around the world, connected basically by a website,
and we have a staff of three. The fact that nobody told us
we couldn't do it, we did it. 