I would like to start with the story of Mary, a woman from an African village. Her first memories are of her family fleeing violent riots orchestrated by 
the ruling political party. Her brother was murdered
by the state-sponsored militia, and she was raped more than once just because she belonged
to the wrong party. One morning, a month before the election, Mary's village was called 
to another intimidation meeting. In this meeting, there is a man
standing in front of them, telling them, "We know who you are, we know who you will vote for, and if you're not going
to drop the right paper, we're going to take revenge." But for Mary, this meeting is different. She feels different. This time, she's waiting for this meeting, because this time, she's carrying
a small hidden camera in her dress, a camera that nobody else can see. Nobody is allowed to film
in these meetings. You risk your life if you do. Mary knows that, but she also knows
that the only way to stop them and to protect herself and her community is to expose their intimidation, to make sure they understand
somebody is following them, to break the impunity they feel. Mary and her friends were filming
for months, undercover, the intimidation of
the ruling political party. (Video) ["Filmed with hidden cameras"] Man: We are now going to speak
about the upcoming elections. Nothing can stop us 
from doing what we want. If we hear you are with [The Opposition] we will not forgive you. ["Militia intimidation rally"] [The Party] can torture you at any time. The youth can beat you. ["Disruption of political meeting"] For those who lie, saying they 
are back with [The Party], your time is running out. ["Party youth militia"] Some have died because they rebelled. Some have lost their homes. If you don't work together 
with [The Party], you will lead a very bad life. Oren Yakobovich: These images
were broadcast all over the world, but more importantly, they have been broadcast
back to the community. The perpetrators saw them too. They understood somebody
is following them. They got scared. Impunity was broken. Mary and her friends forced
the ruling political party not to use violence during the election, and saved hundreds of lives. Mary is just one of hundreds of people that my organization had helped 
to document human rights violations using cameras. My background should have
led me to a different direction. I was born in Israel
to a right-wing family, and as long as I remember myself, I wanted to join the Israeli army
to serve my country and prove what I believed 
was our right for the whole land. I joined the Israeli army 
just after the first intifada, the first Palestinian uprising, and I served in one of the hard-minded, toughest, aggressive infantry units, and I got the biggest gun in my platoon. Quite fast, I became an officer and got soldiers under my command, and as time passed, I started
serving in the West Bank, and I saw these images. I didn't like what I saw. It took me a while, but eventually I refused
to serve in the West Bank and had to spend time in jail. 