I want you guys to imagine 
that you're a soldier running through the battlefield. Now, you're shot in the leg with a bullet, which severs your femoral artery. Now, this bleed is extremely traumatic and can kill you in less 
than three minutes. Unfortunately, by the time that a medic actually gets to you, what the medic has on his or her belt can take five minutes or more, with the application of pressure,
to stop that type of bleed. Now, this problem is 
not only a huge problem for the military, but it's 
also a huge problem that's epidemic throughout 
the entire medical field, which is how do we actually look at wounds and how do we stop them quickly in a way that can work with the body? So now, what I've been working
on for the last four years is to develop smart biomaterials, which are actually materials that will work with the body, helping it to heal and helping it to allow the 
wounds to heal normally. So now, before we do this, we 
have to take a much closer look at actually how does the body work. So now, everybody here knows that the body is made up of cells. So the cell is the most basic unit of life. But not many people know what else. But it actually turns out that your cells sit in this mesh of complicated fibers, proteins and sugars known as the extracellular matrix. So now, the ECM is actually this mesh that 
holds the cells in place, provides structure for your tissues, but it also gives the cells a home. It allows them to feel what they're doing, where they are, and tells them how to act and how to behave. And it actually turns out that 
the extracellular matrix is different from every 
single part of the body. So the ECM in my skin is different than the ECM in my liver, and the ECM in different 
parts of the same organ actually vary, so it's very difficult to be able to have a product that will react to the 
local extracellular matrix, which is exactly what we're trying to do. So now, for example, 
think of the rainforest. You have the canopy, 
you have the understory, and you have the forest floor. Now, all of these parts of the forest are made up of different plants, and different animals call them home. So just like that, the extracellular matrix is incredibly diverse in three dimensions. On top of that, the extracellular matrix is responsible for all wound healing, so if you imagine cutting the body, you actually have to rebuild this very complex ECM in order to get it to form again, and a scar, in fact, is actually poorly formed extracellular matrix. So now, behind me is an animation of the extracellular matrix. So as you see, your cells sit 
in this complicated mesh and as you move throughout the tissue, the extracellular matrix changes. So now every other piece 
of technology on the market can only manage a two-
dimensional approximation of the extracellular matrix, which means that it doesn't fit in with the tissue itself. So when I was a freshman at NYU, what I discovered was 
you could actually take small pieces of plant-derived polymers and reassemble them onto the wound. So if you have a bleeding 
wound like the one behind me, you can actually put 
our material onto this, and just like Lego blocks, it'll reassemble into the local tissue. So that means if you put it onto liver, it turns into something 
that looks like liver, and if you put it onto skin, it turns into something 
that looks just like skin. So when you put the gel on, it actually reassembles 
into this local tissue. So now, this has a whole 
bunch of applications, but basically the idea is,
wherever you put this product, you're able to reassemble 
into it immediately. 