So a while ago, I tried an experiment. For one year, I would say yes
to all the things that scared me. Anything that made me nervous,
took me out of my comfort zone, I forced myself to say yes to. Did I want to speak in public? No, but yes. Did I want to be on live TV? No, but yes. Did I want to try acting? No, no, no, but yes, yes, yes. And a crazy thing happened: the very act of doing
the thing that scared me undid the fear, made it not scary. My fear of public speaking,
my social anxiety, poof, gone. It's amazing, the power of one word. "Yes" changed my life. "Yes" changed me. But there was one particular yes that affected my life
in the most profound way, in a way I never imagined, and it started with a question
from my toddler. I have these three amazing daughters,
Harper, Beckett and Emerson, and Emerson is a toddler who inexplicably
refers to everyone as "honey." as though she's a Southern waitress. (Laughter) "Honey, I'm gonna need some milk
for my sippy cup." (Laughter) The Southern waitress asked me
to play with her one evening when I was on my way somewhere,
and I said, "Yes." And that yes was the beginning
of a new way of life for my family. I made a vow that from now on, every time one of my children
asks me to play, no matter what I'm doing
or where I'm going, I say yes, every single time. Almost. I'm not perfect at it,
but I try hard to practice it. And it's had a magical effect on me, on my children, on our family. But it's also had a stunning side effect, and it wasn't until recently
that I fully understood it, that I understood that saying yes
to playing with my children likely saved my career. See, I have what most people
would call a dream job. I'm a writer. I imagine.
I make stuff up for a living. Dream job. No. I'm a titan. Dream job. I create television.
I executive produce television. I make television,
a great deal of television. In one way or another, this TV season, I'm responsible for bringing about
70 hours of programming to the world. Four television programs,
70 hours of TV -- (Applause) Three shows in production
at a time, sometimes four. Each show creates hundreds of jobs
that didn't exist before. The budget for one episode
of network television can be anywhere
from three to six million dollars. Let's just say five. A new episode made every nine days
times four shows, so every nine days that's
20 million dollars worth of television, four television programs, 70 hours of TV, three shows in production at a time,
sometimes four, 16 episodes going on at all times: 24 episodes of "Grey's,"
21 episodes of "Scandal," 15 episodes of
"How To Get Away With Murder," 10 episodes of "The Catch,"
that's 70 hours of TV, that's 350 million dollars for a season. In America, my television shows are back to back to back
on Thursday night. Around the world, my shows air
in 256 territories in 67 languages for an audience of 30 million people. My brain is global, and 45 hours of that 70 hours of TV
are shows I personally created and not just produced,
so on top of everything else, I need to find time,
real quiet, creative time, to gather my fans around the campfire and tell my stories. Four television programs, 70 hours of TV, three shows in production at a time, sometimes four, 350 million dollars,
campfires burning all over the world. You know who else is doing that? Nobody, so like I said, I'm a titan. Dream job. (Applause) Now, I don't tell you this to impress you. I tell you this because I know what you
think of when you hear the word "writer." I tell you this so that all of you
out there who work so hard, whether you run a company
or a country or a classroom or a store or a home, take me seriously
when I talk about working, so you'll get that I don't
peck at a computer and imagine all day, so you'll hear me when I say that I understand that a dream job
is not about dreaming. It's all job, all work, all reality,
all blood, all sweat, no tears. I work a lot, very hard, and I love it. When I'm hard at work,
when I'm deep in it, there is no other feeling. For me, my work is at all times
building a nation out of thin air. It is manning the troops.
It is painting a canvas. It is hitting every high note.
It is running a marathon. 