In ancient Greece, when anyone from slaves to soldiers,
poets and politicians, needed to make a big decision
on life's most important questions, like, "Should I get married?" or "Should we embark on this voyage?" or "Should our army
advance into this territory?" they all consulted the oracle. So this is how it worked: you would bring her a question
and you would get on your knees, and then she would go into this trance. It would take a couple of days, and then eventually
she would come out of it, giving you her predictions as your answer. From the oracle bones of ancient China to ancient Greece to Mayan calendars, people have craved for prophecy in order to find out
what's going to happen next. And that's because we all want
to make the right decision. We don't want to miss something. The future is scary, so it's much nicer
knowing that we can make a decision with some assurance of the outcome. Well, we have a new oracle, and it's name is big data, or we call it "Watson"
or "deep learning" or "neural net." And these are the kinds of questions
we ask of our oracle now, like, "What's the most efficient way
to ship these phones from China to Sweden?" Or, "What are the odds of my child being born
with a genetic disorder?" Or, "What are the sales volume
we can predict for this product?" I have a dog. Her name is Elle,
and she hates the rain. And I have tried everything
to untrain her. But because I have failed at this, I also have to consult
an oracle, called Dark Sky, every time before we go on a walk, for very accurate weather predictions
in the next 10 minutes. She's so sweet. So because of all of this,
our oracle is a $122 billion industry. Now, despite the size of this industry, the returns are surprisingly low. Investing in big data is easy, but using it is hard. Over 73 percent of big data projects
aren't even profitable, and I have executives
coming up to me saying, "We're experiencing the same thing. We invested in some big data system, and our employees aren't making
better decisions. And they're certainly not coming up
with more breakthrough ideas." So this is all really interesting to me, because I'm a technology ethnographer. I study and I advise companies on the patterns
of how people use technology, and one of my interest areas is data. So why is having more data
not helping us make better decisions, especially for companies
who have all these resources to invest in these big data systems? Why isn't it getting any easier for them? So, I've witnessed the struggle firsthand. In 2009, I started
a research position with Nokia. And at the time, Nokia was one of the largest
cell phone companies in the world, dominating emerging markets
like China, Mexico and India -- all places where I had done
a lot of research on how low-income people use technology. And I spent a lot of extra time in China getting to know the informal economy. So I did things like working
as a street vendor selling dumplings to construction workers. Or I did fieldwork, 