Thirteen trillion dollars in wealth has evaporated over the course
of the last two years. We've questioned the future of capitalism. We've questioned the financial industry. We've looked at our government oversight. We've questioned where we're going. And yet, at the same time, this very well may be
a seminal moment in American history, an opportunity for the consumer
to actually take control and guide us to a new trajectory in America. I'm calling this The Great Unwind. (Laughter) And the idea is a simple, simple idea, which is the fact that the consumer
has moved from a state of anxiety to action. Consumers who represent 72 percent
of the GDP of America have actually started, just like banks
and just like businesses, to de-leverage, to unwind
their leverage in daily life, to remove themselves
from the liability and risk that presents itself as they move forward. So, to understand this --
and I'm going to stress this -- it's not about the consumer
being in retreat. The consumer is empowered. To understand this, we'll step back
and look at what's happened over the last year and a half. So if you've been gone,
this is the CliffsNotes on what's happened in the economy. (Laughter) Unemployment up. Housing values down.
Equity markets down. Commodity prices are like this. If you're a mom trying to manage a budget, and oil was 150 dollars
a barrel last summer, and it's somewhere between 50 and 70, do you plan vacations? How do you buy? What's your strategy in your household?
Will the bailout work? We have national debt, Detroit,
currency valuations, health care -- all these issues facing us. You put them all together,
mix them up in a bouillabaisse, and you have consumer confidence
that's basically a ticking time bomb. In fact, let's go back and look
at what caused this crisis, because the consumer,
all of us, in our daily lives, actually contributed
a large part to the problem. This is something I call
the 50-20 paradox. It took us 50 years to reach annual savings ratings
of almost 10 percent. Fifty years. Do you know what this was right here?
This was World War II. Do you know why savings was so high? There was nothing to buy,
unless you wanted to buy some rivets. What happened, though,
over the course of the last 20 years, we went from a 10 percent savings rate
to a negative savings rate. Because we binged. We bought extra-large cars,
supersized everything, we bought remedies
for restless leg syndrome. All these things together
basically created a factor where the consumer drove us
headlong into the crisis that we face today. The personal debt-to-income ratio
basically went from 65 to 135 percent in the span of about 15 years. So consumers got over-leveraged. And of course our banks did as well,
as did our federal government. This is an absolutely staggering chart. It shows leverage,
trended out from 1919 to 2009. And what you end up seeing
is the whole phenomenon that we are actually stepping forth
and basically leveraging future education, future children
in our households. So if you look at this in the context
of visualizing the bailout, what you can see is,
if you stack up dollar bills, first of all, 360,000 dollars is about the size of a five-foot-four guy. But if you stack it up, you see
this amazing, staggering amount of dollars that have been put into the system
to fund and bail us out. So this is the first 315 billion. But I read this fact the other day, that one trillion seconds
equals 32,000 years. So if you think about that, the context, the casualness
with which we talk about trillion-dollar bailout here
and trillion there, we are stacking ourselves up
for long-term leverage. However, consumers have moved. They are taking responsibility. What we're seeing
is an uptake in the savings rate. In fact, 11 straight months
of savings have happened since the beginning of the crisis. We're working our way back up
to that 10 percent. Also, remarkably, in the fourth quarter, spending dropped
to its lowest level in 62 years -- almost a 3.7 percent decline. Visa now reports that more people
are using debit cards than credit cards. So we're starting to pay for things
with money that we have. And we're starting to be much more careful
about how we save and invest. But that's not really the whole story, because this has also been a dramatic
time of transformation. And you've got to admit,
over the last year and a half, consumers have been doing
some weird things. It's pretty staggering,
what we've lived through. If you take into account
that 80 percent of all Americans were born after World War II, this was essentially our Depression. And so, as a result,
some crazy things have happened. I'll give you some examples. Let's talk about dentists, vasectomies,
guns and shark attacks. (Laughter) Dentists report molars --
people grinding their teeth, coming in and reporting
that they've had stress. So there's an increase in people
having to have their fillings replaced. Gun sales, according to the FBI,
who does background checks, are up almost 25 percent since January. Vasectomies are up 48 percent,
according to the Cornell Institute. And lastly, but a very good point, hopefully not related
to the former point I just made, which is that shark attacks
are at their lowest level from 2003. Does anybody know why? (Laughter) No one's at the beach. So there's a bright side to everything. But seriously, what we see happening, and the reason I want to stress
that the consumer is not in retreat, is that this is a tremendous opportunity for the consumer who drove us
into this recession to lead us right back out. What I mean by that is we can
move from mindless consumption to mindful consumption. Right? (Applause) If you think about the last three decades, the consumer has moved
from savvy about marketing in the '90s, to gathering all these amazing social
and search tools in this decade. But the one thing holding them back
is the ability to discriminate. By restricting their demand, consumers can actually align
their values with their spending, and drive capitalism and business
to not just be about more, but to be about better. We're going to explain that right now. Based on Y&amp;R's BrandAsset Valuator, proprietary tool of VML
and Young &amp; Rubicam, we set out to understand
what's been happening in the crisis with the consumer marketplace. We found a couple
of really interesting things. We're going to go
through four value shifts that we see driving
new consumer behaviors, that offer new management principles. The first cultural value shift we see is this tendency toward something
we call "liquid life." This is the movement from Americans defining
their success on having things to having liquidity, because the less excess
that you have around you, the more nimble and fleet of foot you are. 