Why do people deliberately
destroy cultural heritage? By doing so, do they believe
they're erasing our history? Our cultural memory? It's true that we are losing
cultural heritage to erosion and natural disasters, but this is something
that is simply difficult to avoid. I'm here to show you today
how we can use pictures -- your pictures -- to reclaim the history that is being lost using innovative technology and the effort of volunteers. In the early 20th century, archaeologists discovered
hundreds of statues and artifacts at the ancient city of Hatra, in northern Iraq. Statues like this one
were found in fragments, some of them missing their heads or arms, yet the clothing that they are wearing and their pose can still tell us their story. For example, we believe that by wearing
a knee-length tunic and open bare feet, this was representative of a priest. However, with a closer look
at this particular piece, we can see that this tunic being worn
was elaborately decorated, which has led many researchers to believe this was actually a statue of a king
performing his religious functions. When the Mosul Cultural Museum
opened in 1952 in northern Iraq, this statue, as well as others, were placed there to preserve them
for future generations. Following the US-led invasion
of Iraq in 2003, a few statues and artifacts
were relocated to Baghdad, but this statue remained. Then in February of last year,
a video was released, and it instantly went viral. Maybe some of you remember seeing it. Here's a short clip. (Video) (Singing in Arabic) (Singing ends) Not a very pleasant sight, right? Did you notice anything
familiar in the video? There it is. There is that very statue, as it was toppled over, breaking into pieces. When Matthew Vincent and I saw this video, we were shocked. Since we are archaeologists
using innovative technology for digital preservation, an idea sprung to mind. Maybe we can crowdsource the images
that were taken of these artifacts before they were destroyed, to create digital reconstructions. If we can do that, maybe we can put them
into a virtual museum to tell that story. And so two weeks after we saw this video, we started the project
called Project Mosul. Remember the pictures of the statue
I showed you before? This is actually the crowdsourced
reconstruction of it before it was destroyed. Now, many of you may be wondering, how exactly does this work? Well, the key to this technology
is called photogrammetry, and it was invented here, in Germany. It is the technology that allows us
to use two-dimensional images taken of the same object
from different angles to create a 3D model. I know you may be thinking
this sounds like magic -- but it's not. Let me show you how it works. Here are two crowdsourced images
of the same statue. What the computer can do is it can detect similar features
between the photographs -- similar features of the object. Then, by using multiple photos, in this case, it can begin
to reconstruct the object in 3D. In this case, you have the position of the cameras
when each image was taken, shown in blue. Now, this is a partial
reconstruction, I admit, but why would I say partial? Well, simply because the statue
was positioned against a wall. We don't have photographs
taken of it from the back. If I wanted to complete a full
digital reconstruction of this statue, I would need a proper camera, tripods, proper lighting, but we simply can't do that
with crowdsourced images. Think about it: How many of you, when you visit a museum, take photographs
of all parts of the statue, even the back side of it? Well, maybe if some of you find
Michelangelo's David interesting, I guess -- (Laughter) But the thing is, if we can find more images of this object, we can improve the 3D model. When we started the project, we started it with
the Mosul Museum in mind. We figured we may get a few images, some people interested, make one or two virtual reconstructions, but we had no idea that we had sparked
something that would grow so quickly. Before we knew it, we realized it was obvious: we could apply this same idea
to lost heritage anywhere. And so, we decided to change
the name of the project to Rekrei. Then, in the summer of last year, "The Economist" magazine's media lab
reached out to us. They asked us, "Hey, would you like us
to build a virtual museum to put the reconstructions back inside, to tell the story?" Can you imagine us saying no? Of course not. We said yes! We were so excited. This was exactly
the initial dream of that project. And so now, any of you can experience
RecoVR Mosul on your phone, using Google Cardboard or a tablet or even YouTube 360. Here is a screenshot
from the virtual museum. And there it is ... the partial reconstruction of the statue, as well as the Lion of Mosul, the first reconstruction
completed by our project. Although the video doesn't explicitly show
the Lion of Mosul being destroyed, we have many other examples
of large artifacts being destroyed that were simply too large
to have been stolen. For example, the Gate of Nimrud in northern Iraq. This is a digital
reconstruction from before, and this is actually
during the destruction. 