How do we build a society without fossil fuels? This is a very complex challenge, and I believe developing countries
could take the lead in this transition. And I'm aware that this
is a contentious statement, but the reality is that so much
is at stake in our countries if we let fossil fuels stay
at the center of our development. We can do it differently. And it's time, it really is time, to debunk the myth that a country has to choose
between development on the one hand and environmental protection,
renewables, quality of life, on the other. I come from Costa Rica,
a developing country. We are nearly five million people, and we live right in the middle
of the Americas, so it's very easy
to remember where we live. Nearly 100 percent of our electricity comes from renewable sources, five of them. (Applause) Hydropower, geothermal, wind, solar, biomass. Did you know that last year, for 299 days, we did not use any fossil fuels in order to generate all our electricity? It's a fantastic achievement, and yet, it hides a paradox, which is that nearly 70 percent of all our energy consumption is oil. Why? Because of our transportation system, which is totally dependent
on fossil fuels, like it is in most countries. So if we think of the energy
transition as a marathon, the question is, how do we get
to the finish line, how do we decarbonize
the rest of the economy? And it's fair to say
that if we don't succeed, it's difficult to see who will. So that is why I want
to talk to you about Costa Rica, because I believe we are a great candidate in pioneering a vision
for development without fossil fuels. If you know one thing about our country, it's that we don't have an army. So I'm going to take you back to 1948. That year, the country
was coming out of civil war. Thousands of Costa Ricans had died, and families were bitterly split. And yet, a surprising idea
won the hearts and minds: we would reboot the country, and that Second Republic
would have no army. So we abolished it. And the president at the time, 