Diana Reiss: You may think you're looking through a window at a dolphin
spinning playfully, but what you're actually looking through is a two-way mirror at a dolphin looking at itself spinning playfully. This is a dolphin that is self-aware. This dolphin has self-awareness. It's a young dolphin named Bayley. I've been very interested
in understanding the nature of the intelligence of dolphins
for the past 30 years. How do we explore
intelligence in this animal that's so different from us? And what I've used is a very
simple research tool, a mirror, and we've gained
great information, reflections of these animal minds. Dolphins aren't the only animals,
the only non-human animals, to show mirror self-recognition. We used to think this
was a uniquely human ability, but we learned that the great
apes, our closest relatives, also show this ability. Then we showed it in dolphins, and then later in elephants. We did this work in my lab
with the dolphins and elephants, and it's been recently
shown in the magpie. Now, it's interesting,
because we've embraced this Darwinian view of a continuity
in physical evolution, this physical continuity. But we've been much more
reticent, much slower at recognizing this
continuity in cognition, in emotion, in consciousness
in other animals. Other animals are conscious. They're emotional. They're aware. There have been multitudes
of studies with many species over the years that have
given us exquisite evidence for thinking and consciousness
in other animals, other animals that are quite
different than we are in form. We are not alone. We are not alone in these abilities. And I hope, and one of my biggest dreams, is that, with our growing awareness about the consciousness of others and our relationship with the rest
of the animal world, that we'll give them
the respect and protection that they deserve. So that's a wish I'm throwing
out here for everybody, and I hope I can really
engage you in this idea. Now, I want to return to dolphins, because these are the animals
that I feel like I've been working up closely
and personal with for over 30 years. And these are real personalities. They are not persons,
but they're personalities in every sense of the word. And you can't get more
alien than the dolphin. They are very different
from us in body form. They're radically different. They come
from a radically different environment. In fact, we're separated
by 95 million years of divergent evolution. Look at this body. And in every sense of making a pun here, these are true non-terrestrials. I wondered how we might
interface with these animals. In the 1980s, I developed
an underwater keyboard. This was a custom-made
touch-screen keyboard. What I wanted to do was give
the dolphins choice and control. These are big brains,
highly social animals, and I thought, well, if we give
them choice and control, if they can hit a symbol
on this keyboard -- and by the way, it was interfaced
by fiber optic cables from Hewlett-Packard
with an Apple II computer. This seems prehistoric now, but this was where
we were with technology. So the dolphins could hit a key, a symbol, they heard a computer-generated whistle, and they got an object or activity. Now here's a little video. This is Delphi and Pan,
and you're going to see Delphi hitting a key, he hears a computer-generated
whistle -- (Whistle) -- and gets a ball, so they can
actually ask for things they want. What was remarkable is,
they explored this keyboard on their own. There was no
intervention on our part. They explored the keyboard.
They played around with it. They figured out how it worked. And they started to quickly
imitate the sounds they were hearing on the keyboard. They imitated on their own. Beyond that, though, they started learning associations
between the symbols, the sounds and the objects. What we saw was self-organized learning, and now I'm imagining, what can we do with new technologies? How can we create interfaces,
new windows into the minds of animals,
with the technologies that exist today? So I was thinking about this,
and then, one day, I got a call from Peter. Peter Gabriel: I make noises for a living. On a good day, it's music, and I want to talk a little bit about the most amazing music-making
experience I ever had. I'm a farm boy. I grew
up surrounded by animals, and I would look in these eyes and wonder what was going on there? So as an adult, when
I started to read about the amazing breakthroughs
with Penny Patterson and Koko, with Sue Savage-Rumbaugh
and Kanzi, Panbanisha, Irene Pepperberg, Alex the parrot, I got all excited. What was amazing to me also was they seemed a lot more adept at getting a handle on our language than we were on getting
a handle on theirs. I work with a lot of musicians
from around the world, and often we don't have
any common language at all, but we sit down behind our instruments, and suddenly there's a way
for us to connect and emote. So I started cold-calling,
and eventually got through to Sue Savage-Rumbaugh, and she invited me down. I went down, and the bonobos had had access to percussion instruments, musical toys, but never
before to a keyboard. At first they did what infants do, just bashed it with their fists, and then I asked, through Sue, if Panbanisha could try
with one finger only. Sue Savage-Rumbaugh: Can
you play a grooming song? I want to hear a grooming song. Play a real quiet grooming song. PG: So groom was the subject of the piece. (Music) So I'm just behind, jamming, yeah, this is what we started with. Sue's encouraging her
to continue a little more. (Music) She discovers a note she likes, finds the octave. She'd never sat at a keyboard before. Nice triplets. SSR: You did good. That was very good. PG: She hit good. (Applause) So that night, we began to dream, and we thought, perhaps
the most amazing tool that man's created is the Internet, and what would happen if we could somehow find new interfaces, visual-audio interfaces that would allow these remarkable sentient beings that we share the planet with access? And Sue Savage-Rumbaugh
got excited about that, called her friend Steve Woodruff, and we began hustling all sorts of people whose work related or was inspiring, which led us to Diana, and led us to Neil. Neil Gershenfeld: Thanks, Peter.
PG: Thank you. (Applause) NG: So Peter approached me. I lost it when I saw that clip. He approached me with a vision
of doing these things not for people, for animals. And then I was struck
in the history of the Internet. This is what the Internet
looked like when it was born and you can call that the Internet of middle-aged white men, mostly middle-aged white men. Vint Cerf: (Laughs) (Laughter) NG: Speaking as one. Then, when I first came to TED, which was where I met
Peter, I showed this. This is a $1 web server, and at the time that was radical. And the possibility of making
a web server for a dollar grew into what became known
as the Internet of Things, which is literally an industry
now with tremendous implications for health care, energy efficiency. And we were happy with ourselves. And then when Peter showed me that, I realized we had missed something, which is the rest of the planet. So we started up this
interspecies Internet project. Now we started talking with TED about how you bring dolphins
and great apes and elephants to TED, and we realized
that wouldn't work. So we're going to bring you to them. So if we could switch
to the audio from this computer, we've been video conferencing
with cognitive animals, and we're going to have each of them just briefly introduce them. And so if we could also
have this up, great. So the first site we're going to meet is Cameron Park Zoo
in Waco, with orangutans. In the daytime they live outside.
It's nighttime there now. So can you please go ahead? Terri Cox: Hi, I'm Terri Cox with the Cameron Park Zoo in Waco, Texas, and with me I have KeraJaan and Mei, two of our Bornean orangutans. During the day, they have
a beautiful, large outdoor habitat, and at night, they come into this habitat, into their night quarters, where they can have a climate-controlled and secure environment to sleep in. We participate in the Apps
for Apes program Orangutan Outreach, and we use iPads to help stimulate and enrich the animals, and also help raise awareness for these critically endangered animals. And they share 97 percent of our DNA and are incredibly intelligent, so it's so exciting to think
of all the opportunities that we have via technology
and the Internet to really enrich their lives
and open up their world. We're really excited about the possibility of an interspecies Internet, and K.J. has
been enjoying the conference very much. NG: That's great. When we were
rehearsing last night, he had fun watching the elephants. Next user group are the dolphins
at the National Aquarium. Please go ahead. Allison Ginsburg: Good evening. Well, my name is Allison Ginsburg, and we're live in Baltimore
at the National Aquarium. Joining me are three of our eight Atlantic
bottlenose dolphins: 20-year-old Chesapeake,
who was our first dolphin born here, her four-year-old daughter Bayley, and her half sister, 11-year-old Maya. Now, here at the National Aquarium we are committed to excellence
in animal care, to research, and to conservation. The dolphins are pretty intrigued
as to what's going on here tonight. They're not really used
to having cameras here at 8 o'clock at night. In addition, we are very
committed to doing different types of research. As Diana mentioned,
our animals are involved in many different research studies. NG: Those are for you. Okay, that's great, thank you. And the third user group, in Thailand, is Think Elephants. Go ahead, Josh. Josh Plotnik: Hi, my name is Josh Plotnik, and I'm with Think
Elephants International, and we're here in the Golden
Triangle of Thailand with the Golden Triangle Asian
Elephant Foundation elephants. And we have 26 elephants here, and our research is focused on the evolution
of intelligence with elephants, but our foundation Think
Elephants is focused on bringing elephants
into classrooms around the world virtually like this and showing people how incredible these animals are. So we're able to bring the camera
right up to the elephant, put food into the elephant's mouth, show people what's going
on inside their mouths, and show everyone around the world how incredible these animals really are. NG: Okay, that's great. Thanks Josh. And once again, we've been building
great relationships among them just
since we've been rehearsing. So at that point, if we can go
back to the other computer, we were starting to think
about how you integrate the rest of the biomass
of the planet into the Internet, and we went to the best possible person I can think of, which is Vint Cerf, who is one of the founders
who gave us the Internet. Vint? VC: Thank you, Neil. (Applause) 