Can you imagine what the word
"TED" would have looked like if it had existed during the Roman Empire? I think maybe something like this. An artisan would have spent days
in the sun chiseling it into stone. And in the Middle Ages? A monk, locked in his room, would write T-E-D with his pen. And without going so far back in time, how would these letters
have looked in the 80s? They would have had
electric, strange colors, just like our hairstyles. (Laughter) If this event were about children, I would draw the letters like this, as if they were building blocks, in vivid colors. And if it were about superheroes instead? I would do them like this, inspired by -- in my opinion --
the greatest of all: Superman. (Laughter) The shapes of these letters talk. They tell us things
beyond what they represent. They send us to different eras, they convey values, they tell us stories. If we think about it,
our days are full of letters. We see them on the front of the bus, on the bakery's facade, on the keyboard we write on, on our cell phones -- everywhere. Since the beginning of history, people have felt the need
to give language an image. And rightly so, because language is the most important
communication tool we have. Without understanding what a word means, we can see certain things it conveys. Some letters tell us
that something is modern -- at least it was back in the 70s. Others verify the importance
and monumentality of a place, and they do so in uppercase. There are letters not made to last long -- and neither is the opportunity
they communicate. And there are letters made
by inexperienced hands that, whether they mean to or not, make us imagine
what a place looks like inside. When I moved to Berlin,
I experienced firsthand all the impact that drawn letters
can have in our day-to-day life. I arrived in a new city, which was
exciting and novel for me. Now, dealing with an unfamiliar language
was at times very frustrating and uncomfortable. I found myself several times at parties
clutching my glass of wine, without understanding a single word
of what was being said around me. And of course, I'd smile
as if I understood everything. I felt limited in my ability
to say what I thought, what I felt, what I believed. Not only did I not understand
the conversations, but the streets were full of signs
and text that I couldn't read. But the shapes of the letters
gave me clues; they would open up a little window to understanding the stories
enclosed in those shapes. I recognized places
where tradition was important. 