So we all have our own biases. For example, some of us tend to think that it's very difficult to transform
failing government systems. When we think of government systems, we tend to think that they're archaic,
set in their ways, and perhaps, the leadership
is just too bureaucratic to be able to change things. Well, today, I want
to challenge that theory. I want to tell you a story
of a very large government system that has not only put itself
on the path of reform but has also shown
fairly spectacular results in less than three years. This is what a classroom
in a public school in India looks like. There are 1 million such schools in India. And even for me,
who's lived in India all her life, walking into one of these schools
is fairly heartbreaking. By the time kids are 11, 50 percent of them have fallen
so far behind in their education that they have no hope to recover. 11-year-olds cannot do simple addition, they cannot construct
a grammatically correct sentence. These are things that you and I
would expect an 8-year-old to be able to do. By the time kids are 13 or 14, they tend to drop out of schools. In India, public schools
not only offer free education -- they offer free textbooks,
free workbooks, free meals, sometimes even cash scholarships. And yet, 40 percent of the parents today are choosing to pull their children
out of public schools and pay out of their pockets
to put them in private schools. As a comparison,
in a far richer country, the US, that number is only 10 percent. That's a huge statement on how broken
the Indian public education system is. So it was with that background
that I got a call in the summer of 2013 from an absolutely brilliant lady
called Surina Rajan. She was, at that time, the head
of the Department of School Education in a state called Haryana in India. So she said to us, "Look, I've been
heading this department for the last two years. I've tried a number of things,
and nothing seems to work. Can you possibly help?" Let me describe Haryana
a little bit to you. Haryana is a state
which has 30 million people. It has 15,000 public schools and 2 million plus
children in those public schools. So basically, with that phone call, I promised to help a state and system which was as large as that of Peru
or Canada transform itself. As I started this project,
I was very painfully aware of two things. One, that I had never done
anything like this before. And two, many others had,
perhaps without too much success. As my colleagues and I
looked across the country and across the world, we couldn't find another example that we could just pick up
and replicate in Haryana. We knew that we had to craft
our own journey. But anyway, we jumped right in
and as we jumped in, all sorts of ideas started flying at us. People said, "Let's change
the way we recruit teachers, let's hire new principals and train them and send them on international
learning tours, let's put technology inside classrooms." By the end of week one,
we had 50 ideas on the table, all amazing, all sounded right. There was no way we were
going to be able to implement 50 things. So I said, "Hang on, stop. Let's first at least decide
what is it we're trying to achieve." So with a lot of push and pull and debate, Haryana set itself a goal
which said: by 2020, we want 80 percent of our children
to be at grade-level knowledge. Now the specifics of the goal
don't matter here, but what matters
is how specific the goal is. Because it really allowed us
to take all those ideas which were being thrown at us and say which ones
we were going to implement. Does this idea support this goal?
If yes, let's keep it. But if it doesn't or we're not sure,
then let's put it aside. As simple as it sounds,
having a very specific goal right up front has really allowed us to be
very sharp and focused in our transformation journey. And looking back over
the last two and a half years, that has been a huge positive for us. So we had the goal, and now we needed to figure out
what are the issues, what is broken. Before we went into schools,
a lot of people told us that education quality is poor because either the teachers are lazy,
they don't come into schools, or they're incapable,
they actually don't know how to teach. Well, when we went inside schools,
we found something completely different. On most days, most teachers
were actually inside schools. And when you spoke with them, you realized they were perfectly capable
of teaching elementary classes. But they were not teaching. I went to a school where the teachers were getting
the construction of a classroom and a toilet supervised. I went to another school where two of the teachers
had gone to a nearby bank branch to deposit scholarship money
into kids' accounts. At lunchtime, most teachers
were spending all of their time getting the midday meal cooking,
supervised and served to the students. So we asked the teachers, "What's going on,
why are you not teaching?" And they said, "This is
what's expected of us. When a supervisor comes to visit us, these are exactly the things
that he checks. Has the toilet been made,
has the meal been served. When my principal
goes to a meeting at headquarters, these are exactly the things
which are discussed." You see, what had happened was,
over the last two decades, India had been fighting the challenge
of access, having enough schools, and enrollment, bringing children
into the schools. So the government
launched a whole host of programs to address these challenges, and the teachers became
the implicit executors of these programs. Not explicitly, but implicitly. And now, what was actually needed
was not to actually train teachers further or to monitor their attendance but to tell them
that what is most important is for them to go back
inside classrooms and teach. They needed to be monitored
and measured and awarded on the quality of teaching and not on all sorts of other things. So as we went through
the education system, as we delved into it deeper,
we found a few such core root causes which were determining, which were
shaping how people behaved in the system. And we realized that unless we change
those specific things, we could do a number of other things. We could train, we could put
technology into schools, but the system wouldn't change. And addressing these non-obvious
core issues became a key part of the program. So, we had the goal and we had the issues, and now we needed to figure out
what the solutions were. We obviously did not want
to recreate the wheel, so we said, "Let's look around
and see what we can find." And we found these beautiful,
small pilot experiments all over the country
and all over the world. Small things being done by NGOs,
being done by foundations. But what was also interesting
was that none of them actually scaled. All of them were limited
to 50, 100 or 500 schools. And here, we were looking
for a solution for 15,000 schools. So we looked into why, if these things actually work,
why don't they actually scale? What happens is that
when a typical NGO comes in, they not only bring in their expertise but they also bring in
additional resources. So they might bring in money, they might bring in people, they might bring in technology. And in the 50 or 100 schools
that they actually operate in, those additional resources
actually create a difference. But now imagine that the head of this NGO goes to the head
of the School Education Department and says, "Hey, now let's do this
for 15,000 schools." Where is that guy or girl
going to find the money to actually scale this up
to 15,000 schools? He doesn't have the additional money, he doesn't have the resources. And hence, innovations don't scale. So right at the beginning
of the project, what we said was, "Whatever we have to do
has to be scalable, it has to work in all 15,000 schools." And hence, it has to work
within the existing budgets and resources that the state actually has. Much easier said than done. (Laughter) I think this was definitely
the point in time when my team hated me. 