Sheryl Shade: Hi, Aimee. Aimee Mullins: Hi. SS: Aimee and I thought we'd just talk a little bit, and I wanted her to tell all of you what makes her a distinctive athlete. AM: Well, for those of you who have seen the picture in the little bio -- it might have given it away -- I'm a double amputee, and I was born without fibulas in both legs. 
 I was amputated at age one, and I've been running like hell ever since, all over the place.
 SS: Well, why don't you tell them how you got to Georgetown -- why don't we start there? Why don't we start there? AM: I'm a senior in Georgetown in the Foreign Service program. I won a full academic scholarship out of high school. They pick three students out of the nation every year to get involved in international affairs, and so I won a full ride to Georgetown and I've been there for four years. Love it. SS: When Aimee got there, she decided that she's, kind of, curious about track and field, so she decided to call someone and start asking about it. So, why don't you tell that story? AM: Yeah. Well, I guess I've always been involved in sports. I played softball for five years growing up. I skied competitively throughout high school, and I got a little restless in college because I wasn't doing anything for about a year or two sports-wise. And I'd never competed on a disabled level, you know -- I'd always competed against other able-bodied athletes. That's all I'd ever known. In fact, I'd never even met another amputee until I was 17. And I heard that they do these track meets with all disabled runners, and I figured, "Oh, I don't know about this, but before I judge it, let me go see what it's all about." So, I booked myself a flight to Boston in '95, 19 years old and definitely the dark horse candidate at this race. I'd never done it before. I went out on a gravel track a couple of weeks before this meet to see how far I could run, 
 and about 50 meters was enough for me, panting and heaving. And I had these legs that were made of a wood and plastic compound, attached with Velcro straps -- big, thick, five-ply wool socks on -- you know, not the most comfortable things, but all I'd ever known. And I'm up there in Boston against people wearing legs made of all things -- carbon graphite and, you know, shock absorbers in them and all sorts of things -- and they're all looking at me like, OK, we know who's not going to win this race. And, I mean, I went up there expecting -- I don't know what I was expecting -- but, you know, when I saw a man who was missing an entire leg go up to the high jump, hop on one leg to the high jump and clear it at six feet, two inches ... Dan O'Brien jumped 5'11" in '96 in Atlanta, I mean, if it just gives you a comparison of -- these are truly accomplished athletes, without qualifying that word "athlete." And so I decided to give this a shot: heart pounding, I ran my first race and I beat the national record-holder by three hundredths of a second, and became the new national record-holder on my first try out. And, you know, people said, "Aimee, you know, you've got speed -- you've got natural speed -- but you don't have any skill or finesse going down that track. You were all over the place. We all saw how hard you were working." And so I decided to call the track coach at Georgetown. And I thank god I didn't know just how huge this man is in the track and field world. He's coached five Olympians, and the man's office is lined from floor to ceiling with All America certificates of all these athletes he's coached. He's just a rather intimidating figure. And I called him up and said, "Listen, I ran one race and I won ..." (Laughter) "I want to see if I can, you know -- I need to just see if I can sit in on some of your practices, see what drills you do and whatever." That's all I wanted -- just two practices. "Can I just sit in and see what you do?" And he said, "Well, we should meet first, before we decide anything." You know, he's thinking, "What am I getting myself into?" So, I met the man, walked in his office, and saw these posters and magazine covers of people he has coached. And we got to talking, and it turned out to be a great partnership because he'd never coached a disabled athlete, so therefore he had no preconceived notions of what I was or wasn't capable of, and I'd never been coached before. So this was like, "Here we go -- let's start on this trip." So he started giving me four days a week of his lunch break, his free time, and I would come up to the track and train with him. So that's how I met Frank. That was fall of '95. But then, by the time that winter was rolling around, he said, "You know, you're good enough. You can run on our women's track team here." And I said, "No, come on." And he said, "No, no, really. You can. You can run with our women's track team." In the spring of 1996, with my goal of making the U.S. Paralympic team that May coming up full speed, I joined the women's track team. And no disabled person had ever done that -- run at a collegiate level. So I don't know, it started to become an interesting mix. SS: Well, on your way to the Olympics, a couple of memorable events happened at Georgetown. Why don't you just tell them?
 AM: Yes, well, you know, I'd won everything as far as the disabled meets -- everything I competed in -- and, you know, training in Georgetown and knowing that I was going to have to get used to 
 seeing the backs of all these women's shirts -- you know, I'm running against the next Flo-Jo -- and they're all looking at me like, "Hmm, what's, you know, what's going on here?" And putting on my Georgetown uniform and going out there and knowing that, you know, in order to become better -- and I'm already the best in the country -- you know, you have to train with people who are inherently better than you. And I went out there and made it to the Big East, which was sort of the championship race at the end of the season. It was really, really hot. And it's the first -- I had just gotten these new sprinting legs that you see in that bio, and I didn't realize at that time that the amount of sweating I would be doing in the sock -- it actually acted like a lubricant and I'd be, kind of, pistoning in the socket. And at about 85 meters of my 100 meters sprint, in all my glory, I came out of my leg. Like, I almost came out of it, in front of, like, 5,000 people. And I, I mean, was just mortified -- because I was signed up for the 200, you know, which went off in a half hour. (Laughter) I went to my coach: "Please, don't make me do this." I can't do this in front of all those people. My legs will come off. And if it came off at 85 there's no way I'm going 200 meters. And he just sat there like this. My pleas fell on deaf ears, thank god. Because you know, the man is from Brooklyn; he's a big man. He says, "Aimee, so what if your leg falls off? You pick it up, you put the damn thing back on, and finish the goddamn race!" (Laughter) (Applause) And I did. So, he kept me in line. He kept me on the right track. SS: So, then Aimee makes it to the 1996 Paralympics, and she's all excited. Her family's coming down -- it's a big deal. It's now two years that you've been running? AM: No, a year. SS: A year. And why don't you tell them what happened right before you go run your race? AM: Okay, well, Atlanta. The Paralympics, just for a little bit of clarification, are the Olympics for people with physical disabilities -- amputees, persons with cerebral palsy, and wheelchair athletes -- as opposed to the Special Olympics, which deals with people with mental disabilities. So, here we are, a week after the Olympics and down at Atlanta, and I'm just blown away by the fact that just a year ago, I got out on a gravel track and couldn't run 50 meters. And so, here I am -- never lost. I set new records at the U.S. Nationals -- the Olympic trials -- that May, and was sure that I was coming home with the gold. I was also the only, what they call "bilateral BK" -- below the knee. I was the only woman who would be doing the long jump. I had just done the long jump, and a guy who was missing two legs came up to me and says, "How do you do that? You know, we're supposed to have a planar foot, so we can't get off on the springboard." I said, "Well, I just did it. No one told me that." So, it's funny -- I'm three inches within the world record -- and kept on from that point, you know, so I'm signed up in the long jump -- signed up? No, I made it for the long jump and the 100-meter. And I'm sure of it, you know? I made the front page of my hometown paper that I delivered for six years, you know? It was, like, this is my time for shine. 
 And we're at the trainee warm-up track, which is a few blocks away from the Olympic stadium. These legs that I was on, which I'll take out right now -- I was the first person in the world on these legs. I was the guinea pig., I'm telling you, this was, like -- talk about a tourist attraction. Everyone was taking pictures -- "What is this girl running on?" And I'm always looking around, like, where is my competition? It's my first international meet. I tried to get it out of anybody I could, you know, "Who am I running against here?" "Oh, Aimee, we'll have to get back to you on that one." I wanted to find out times. "Don't worry, you're doing great." This is 20 minutes before my race in the Olympic stadium, and they post the heat sheets. And I go over and look. And my fastest time, which was the world record, was 15.77. Then I'm looking: the next lane, lane two, is 12.8. Lane three is 12.5. Lane four is 12.2. I said, "What's going on?" And they shove us all into the shuttle bus, and all the women there are missing a hand. (Laughter) So, I'm just, like -- they're all looking at me like 'which one of these is not like the other,' you know? I'm sitting there, like, "Oh, my god. Oh, my god." You know, I'd never lost anything, like, whether it would be the scholarship or, you know, I'd won five golds when I skied. In everything, I came in first. And Georgetown -- that was great. I was losing, but it was the best training because this was Atlanta. 