I'm going to talk to you about some stuff
that's in this book of mine that I hope will resonate with other
things you've already heard, and I'll try to make
some connections myself, in case you missed them. But I want to start with
what I call the "official dogma." The official dogma of what? The official dogma of all Western
industrial societies. And the official dogma runs like this: if we are interested in maximizing
the welfare of our citizens, the way to do that
is to maximize individual freedom. The reason for this is both that freedom
is in and of itself good, valuable, worthwhile,
essential to being human. And because if people have freedom, then each of us can act on our own to do the things
that will maximize our welfare, and no one has to decide on our behalf. The way to maximize freedom
is to maximize choice. The more choice people have,
the more freedom they have, and the more freedom they have, the more welfare they have. This, I think, is so deeply embedded
in the water supply that it wouldn't occur
to anyone to question it. And it's also deeply
embedded in our lives. I'll give you some examples of what modern progress
has made possible for us. This is my supermarket. Not such a big one. I want to say just a word
about salad dressing. 175 salad dressings in my supermarket, if you don't count the 10
extra-virgin olive oils and 12 balsamic vinegars you could buy to make a very large number
of your own salad dressings, in the off-chance that none of the 175
the store has on offer suit you. So this is what the supermarket is like. And then you go
to the consumer electronics store to set up a stereo system -- speakers, CD player,
tape player, tuner, amplifier -- and in this one single
consumer electronics store, there are that many stereo systems. We can construct six-and-a-half-million
different stereo systems out of the components
that are on offer in one store. You've got to admit
that's a lot of choice. In other domains --
the world of communications. There was a time, when I was a boy, when you could get any kind
of telephone service you wanted, as long as it came from Ma Bell. You rented your phone. You didn't buy it. One consequence of that, by the way,
is that the phone never broke. And those days are gone. We now have an almost
unlimited variety of phones, especially in the world of cell phones. These are cell phones of the future. My favorite is the middle one -- 