I'll tell you a little bit about my story
and who I am. I'm a fashion photographer
based in New York City. I've worked for lots 
of different magazines in New York, I've worked for Elle and for Marie Claire, and for Interview and for GQ, and I got to work 
with some really beautiful people. My studio is in New York, but I also lived in Milan
for about eight years, and in Paris as well, and worked for the house 
of Yves St. Laurent. I also did portraiture as well. I've worked for lots 
of different magazines, lots of great clients. But I was always told,
every single day, who was beautiful. I was forced to work within certain parameters 
of the beauty standard. I was told, "This is the most 
amazing model of the moment, you've got to photograph her. She's incredible, you've got to." And then the next season,
it would change again, and I'd have to shift my ideas of beauty, and so we'd go to the next model, and it was kind of really crazy,
because I'm an artist. I saw beauty everywhere. I didn't see beauty 
just on a magazine cover. I did a shoot with, of 
course, Cindy, for Revlon, and really fantastic, beautiful people. But I thought, someone's always telling me 
who's beautiful. And I was kind of frustrated. I left my studio one 
afternoon in New York, and I was walking down Park Avenue, and I saw, waiting for a bus 
at the corner of Park and 20th, this gorgeous kid. She had long, white, beautiful hair,
and pale, pale skin. She had a genetic condition 
called albinism. I didn't know much about it, 
but she was stunning, and I'd never met 
a model like this before. And I went to grab her and say, "I have to take your photograph, 
you're amazing!" And the bus came, she got on, 
and then she took off, and I was really glad because she was 12, and I'd be in prison at the moment.
(Laughter) But really, it was 
extraordinary to see this kid. So I continued right down to Union Square, to the huge Barnes and Noble, and started pulling any books,
or any information I could about this genetic condition, albinism. And I found really kind of sad images. I didn't find images of this kid. I found images of people 
sitting in hospital beds, looking sad, looking downtrodden, 
just images of despair. I found images 
of a bright red eye, the albino eye. I'm thinking, 
this kid had beautiful blue eyes, she didn't have red eyes. And then I started seeing 
images from Africa, where kids were surrounded by tribes 
pointing spears at them or in cancer wards and clinics, or they're just in beds, 
and images of illness, of sadness, of sickness. And then, I started, of course, going through
those same medical textbooks, and started finding 
these typical images of kids and adults in their underwear, 
against walls in doctor's offices, with the black bar across their eyes 
saying "disease." This is a disease, defined by a disease. And I was like, this is crazy. And then I started going into it further, looking on the Internet, and all these different medical textbooks, and everything was so sad, 
and so negative. I then started finding images 
of the albino freak family in the circus, and then of course, 
all the movie references, from "Powder," who had albinism because
his mother was struck by lightning, to "The Princess Bride" and 
to "The Matrix Reloaded," there were the ghost-like twins 
that came in and wreaked havoc, and destroyed things and then disappeared. Even most recently, "The Da Vinci Code," there was like the evil albino 
driving around Paris at night, killing people, shooting at people. Well, I found out, through my research, that people with albinism 
have a visual impairment. There's always vision, 
but they're considered legally blind. So they certainly wouldn't be driving 
around Paris at night shooting at anybody
and expect to hit anything. So I'm thinking, this is crazy. So I contact NOAH. Now, NOAH is the National Organization 
for Albinism and Hypopigmentation. It's a support group for people 
living with this condition, and their families. And I'm like, "Hey, I'm a 
fashion photographer. Let's show the world 
the beauty of albinism!" And they said, "Get lost." And I'm pretty persistent. I'm 
like, "Won't you talk to me?" And they made it very clear to me about their fears of exploitation, that every time there 
was a magazine article that came out about a kid with albinism, it was a story about a victim. It was sad, or it was exploitative, 