What do you guys think? For those who watched
Sir Ken's memorable TED Talk, I am a typical example 
of what he describes as "the body as a form
of transport for the head," a university professor. You might think it was not fair that I've been lined up to speak
after these first two talks to speak about science. I can't move my body to the beat, and after a scientist
who became a philosopher, I have to talk about hard science. It could be a very dry subject. Yet, I feel honored. Never in my career, and it's been a long career, have I had the opportunity to start a talk feeling so inspired, like this one. Usually, talking about science is like exercising in a dry place. However, I've had the pleasure of being invited to come here
to talk about water. The words "water" and "dry"
do not match, right? It is even better to talk about
water in the Amazon, which is the splendid cradle 
of life. Fresh life. So this is what inspired me. That's why I'm here,
although I'm carrying my head over here. I am trying, or will try to convey
this inspiration. I hope this story will inspire you
and that you'll spread the word. We know that there is controversy. The Amazon is the "lung of the world," because of its massive power
to have vital gases exchanged between the forest and the atmosphere. We also hear about
the storehouse of biodiversity. While many believe it, few know it. If you go out there, in this marsh, you'll be amazed at the -- You can barely see the animals. The Indians say, "The forest
has more eyes than leaves." That is true, and I will try
to show you something. But today, I'm going to use
a different approach, one that is inspired by these
two initiatives here, a harmonic one and a philosophical one. I'll try to use an approach
that's slightly materialistic, but it also attempts to convey
that, in nature, there is extraordinary philosophy and harmony. There'll be no music in my presentation, but I hope you'll all notice the music
of the reality I'm going to show you. 