I'd like to introduce you
to an emerging area of science, one that is still speculative
but hugely exciting, and certainly one
that's growing very rapidly. Quantum biology
asks a very simple question: Does quantum mechanics -- that weird and wonderful
and powerful theory of the subatomic world
of atoms and molecules that underpins so much
of modern physics and chemistry -- also play a role inside the living cell? In other words: Are there processes,
mechanisms, phenomena in living organisms
that can only be explained with a helping hand
from quantum mechanics? Now, quantum biology isn't new; it's been around since the early 1930s. But it's only in the last decade or so
that careful experiments -- in biochemistry labs,
using spectroscopy -- have shown very clear, firm evidence
that there are certain specific mechanisms that require quantum mechanics
to explain them. Quantum biology brings together
quantum physicists, biochemists, molecular biologists --
it's a very interdisciplinary field. I come from quantum physics,
so I'm a nuclear physicist. I've spent more than three decades trying to get my head
around quantum mechanics. One of the founders
of quantum mechanics, Niels Bohr, said, If you're not astonished by it,
then you haven't understood it. So I sort of feel happy
that I'm still astonished by it. That's a good thing. But it means I study the very
smallest structures in the universe -- the building blocks of reality. If we think about the scale of size, start with an everyday object
like the tennis ball, and just go down orders
of magnitude in size -- from the eye of a needle down to a cell,
down to a bacterium, down to an enzyme -- you eventually reach the nano-world. Now, nanotechnology may be
a term you've heard of. A nanometer is a billionth of a meter. My area is the atomic nucleus,
which is the tiny dot inside an atom. It's even smaller in scale. This is the domain of quantum mechanics, and physicists and chemists
have had a long time to try and get used to it. Biologists, on the other hand,
have got off lightly, in my view. They are very happy with their
balls-and-sticks models of molecules. (Laughter) The balls are the atoms, the sticks
are the bonds between the atoms. And when they can't build them
physically in the lab, nowadays, they have
very powerful computers that will simulate a huge molecule. This is a protein made up
of 100,000 atoms. It doesn't really require much in the way
of quantum mechanics to explain it. Quantum mechanics
was developed in the 1920s. It is a set of beautiful and powerful
mathematical rules and ideas that explain the world of the very small. And it's a world that's very different
from our everyday world, made up of trillions of atoms. It's a world built
on probability and chance. It's a fuzzy world. It's a world of phantoms, where particles can also behave
like spread-out waves. If we imagine quantum mechanics
or quantum physics, then, as the fundamental
foundation of reality itself, then it's not surprising that we say quantum physics underpins
organic chemistry. After all, it gives us
the rules that tell us how the atoms fit together
to make organic molecules. Organic chemistry,
scaled up in complexity, gives us molecular biology,
which of course leads to life itself. So in a way, it's sort of not surprising. It's almost trivial. You say, "Well, of course life ultimately
must depend of quantum mechanics." But so does everything else. So does all inanimate matter,
made up of trillions of atoms. Ultimately, there's a quantum level where we have to delve into
this weirdness. But in everyday life,
we can forget about it. Because once you put together
trillions of atoms, that quantum weirdness
just dissolves away. Quantum biology isn't about this. Quantum biology isn't this obvious. Of course quantum mechanics
underpins life at some molecular level. Quantum biology is about looking
for the non-trivial -- the counterintuitive ideas
in quantum mechanics -- and to see if they do, indeed,
play an important role in describing the processes of life. Here is my perfect example
of the counterintuitiveness of the quantum world. This is the quantum skier. He seems to be intact,
he seems to be perfectly healthy, and yet, he seems to have gone around
both sides of that tree at the same time. Well, if you saw tracks like that you'd guess it was some
sort of stunt, of course. But in the quantum world,
this happens all the time. Particles can multitask,
they can be in two places at once. They can do more than one thing
at the same time. Particles can behave
like spread-out waves. It's almost like magic. Physicists and chemists have had
nearly a century of trying to get used to this weirdness. I don't blame the biologists for not having to or wanting
to learn quantum mechanics. You see, this weirdness is very delicate; and we physicists work very hard
to maintain it in our labs. We cool our system down
to near absolute zero, we carry out our experiments in vacuums, we try and isolate it
from any external disturbance. That's very different from the warm,
messy, noisy environment of a living cell. Biology itself, if you think of
molecular biology, seems to have done very well
in describing all the processes of life in terms of chemistry --
chemical reactions. And these are reductionist,
deterministic chemical reactions, showing that, essentially, life is made
of the same stuff as everything else, and if we can forget about quantum
mechanics in the macro world, then we should be able to forget
about it in biology, as well. Well, one man begged
to differ with this idea. 