This is the skyline
of my hometown, New Orleans. It was a great place to grow up, but it's one of the most vulnerable
spots in the world. Half the city is already below sea level. In 2005, the world watched as New Orleans and the Gulf Coast were
devastated by Hurricane Katrina. One thousand, eight hundred and thirty-six
people died. Nearly 300,000 homes were lost. These are my mother's, at the top -- although that's not her car, it was carried there
by floodwaters up to the roof -- and that's my sister's, below. Fortunately, they and other
family members got out in time, but they lost their homes,
and as you can see, just about everything in them. Other parts of the world
have been hit by storms in even more devastating ways. In 2008, Cyclone Nargis and its aftermath killed 138,000 in Myanmar. Climate change is affecting
our homes, our communities, our way of life. We should be preparing at every scale and at every opportunity. This talk is about being
prepared for, and resilient to the changes that are coming
and that will affect our homes and our collective home, the Earth. The changes in these times
won't affect us all equally. There are important
distributional consequences, and they're not what you
always might think. In New Orleans, the elderly
and female-headed households were among the most vulnerable. For those in vulnerable,
low-lying nations, how do you put a dollar value
on losing your country where you ancestors are buried?
And where will your people go? And how will they cope in a foreign land? Will there be tensions over immigration, or conflicts over competition
for limited resources? It's already fueled conflicts
in Chad and Darfur. Like it or not, ready
or not, this is our future. Sure, some are looking
for opportunities in this new world. That's the Russians planting
a flag on the ocean bottom to stake a claim for minerals
under the receding Arctic sea ice. But while there might be
some short-term individual winners, our collective losses
will far outweigh them. Look no further than the insurance
industry as they struggle to cope with mounting catastrophic losses from extreme weather events. The military gets it.
They call climate change a threat multiplier that could
harm stability and security, while governments
around the world are evaluating how to respond. So what can we do? How can
we prepare and adapt? I'd like to share three sets
of examples, starting with adapting to violent storms and floods. In New Orleans, the I-10 Twin Spans, with sections knocked
out in Katrina, have been rebuilt 21 feet higher to allow
for greater storm surge. And these raised
and energy-efficient homes were developed by Brad
Pitt and Make It Right for the hard-hit Ninth Ward. The devastated church
my mom attends has been not only rebuilt higher,
it's poised to become the first Energy Star
church in the country. They're selling electricity
back to the grid thanks to solar panels,
reflective paint and more. Their March electricity
bill was only 48 dollars. Now these are examples of New
Orleans rebuilding in this way, but better if others act proactively
with these changes in mind. For example, in Galveston,
here's a resilient home that survived Hurricane Ike, when others on neighboring
lots clearly did not. And around the world,
satellites and warning systems are saving lives in flood-prone
areas such as Bangladesh. But as important as technology
and infrastructure are, perhaps the human element
is even more critical. We need better planning
and systems for evacuation. We need to better understand
how people make decisions in times of crisis, and why. While it's true that many who died in Katrina
did not have access to transportation, others who did refused to leave
as the storm approached, often because available
transportation and shelters refused to allow them to take their pets. Imagine leaving behind your own pet
in an evacuation or a rescue. Fortunately in 2006, Congress passed the Pet Evacuation and Transportation
Standards Act (Laughter) 