I get asked a lot what the difference
between my work is and typical Pentagon
long-range strategic planners. And the answer I like to offer is what they typically do is they think
about the future of wars in the context of war. And what I've spent 15 years
doing in this business -- and it's taken me almost
14 to figure it out -- is I think about the future of wars
in the context of everything else. So I tend to specialize
on the scene between war and peace. The material I'm going to show
you is one idea from a book with a lot of ideas. It's the one that takes me
around the world right now interacting with foreign
militaries quite a bit. The material was generated
in two years of work I did for the Secretary of Defense, thinking about a new
national grand strategy for the United States. I'm going to present a problem and try to give you an answer. Here's my favorite bonehead concept
from the 1990s in the Pentagon: the theory of anti-access,
area-denial asymmetrical strategies. Why do we call it that? Because it's got all those
A's lined up I guess. This is gobbledygook for if the United States fights
somebody we're going to be huge. They're going to be small. And if they try to fight us
in the traditional, straight-up manner we're going to kick their ass, which is why people don't
try to do that any more. I met the last Air Force
General who had actually shot down an enemy plane in combat. He's now a one star General. That's how distant
we are from even meeting an air force willing to fly against ours. So that overmatched capability
creates problems -- catastrophic successes
the White House calls them. (Laughter) And we're trying to figure that out, because it is an amazing capability. The question is, what's the good
you can do with it? OK? The theory of anti-access, area-denial
asymmetrical strategies -- gobbledygook that we sell to Congress, because if we just told them
we can kick anybody's asses they wouldn't buy us
all the stuff we want. So we say, area-denial, anti-access
asymmetrical strategies and their eyes glaze over. (Laughter) And they say, "Will you
build it in my district?" (Laughter) (Applause) Here's my parody and it ain't much of one. Let's talk about a battle space. I don't know, Taiwan Straits 2025. Let's talk about an enemy embedded
within that battle space. I don't know, the Million Man Swim. (Laughter) The United States has to access
that battle space instantaneously. They throw up anti-access,
area-denial asymmetrical strategies. A banana peel on the tarmac. (Laughter) Trojan horses on our computer networks reveal all our Achilles' heels instantly. We say, "China, it's yours." Prometheus approach, largely
a geographic definition, focuses almost exclusively
on the start of conflict. We field the first-half team in a league that insists on keeping score
until the end of the game. That's the problem. We can run the score up against anybody, and then get our asses
kicked in the second half -- what they call fourth generation warfare. Here's the way
I like to describe it instead. There is no battle space the U.S.
Military cannot access. They said we couldn't do Afghanistan.
We did it with ease. They said we couldn't do Iraq. We did it with 150 combat
casualties in six weeks. We did it so fast we weren't
prepared for their collapse. There is nobody we can't take down. The question is, what do
you do with the power? So there's no trouble
accessing battle spaces. What we have trouble accessing
is the transition space that must naturally follow, and creating the peace space
that allows us to move on. Problem is, the Defense
Department over here beats the hell out of you. The State Department over here says, "Come on boy, I know you can make it." And that poor country runs off that ledge, does that cartoon thing and then drops. (Laughter) This is not about overwhelming
force, but proportional force. It's about non-lethal technologies, because if you fire real ammo into a crowd of women and children rioting you're going to lose friends very quickly. This is not about projecting
power, but about staying power, which is about legitimacy with the locals. Who do you access in this
transition space? You have to create internal partners.
You have to access coalition partners. We asked the Indians
for 17,000 peace keepers. I know their senior leadership,
they wanted to give it to us. But they said to us, "You know what? In that transition space you're
mostly hat not enough cattle. We don't think you can pull it off, we're not going to give you
our 17,000 peace keepers for fodder." We asked the Russians for 40,000. They said no. I was in China in August, I said, "You should have 50,000
peace keepers in Iraq. It's your oil, not ours." Which is the truth. It's their oil. And the Chinese said to me, "Dr.
Barnett, you're absolutely right. In a perfect world we'd have 50,000 there. But it's not a perfect world, and your administration isn't
getting us any closer." But we have trouble
accessing our outcomes. We lucked out, frankly, on the selection. We face different opponents
across these three. And it's time to start admitting you can't ask the same 19-year-old
to do it all, day in and day out. It's just too damn hard. We have an unparalleled
capacity to wage war. We don't do the everything else so well. Frankly, we do it better than anybody
and we still suck at it. We have a brilliant Secretary of War. We don't have a Secretary
of Everything Else. Because if we did, that guy
would be in front of the Senate, still testifying over Abu Ghraib. The problem is he doesn't exist. There is no Secretary of Everything Else. I think we have an unparalleled
capacity to wage war. I call that the Leviathan Force. What we need to build is a force
for the Everything Else. I call them the System Administrators. What I think this really represents is lack of an A to Z rule set
for the world as a whole for processing politically
bankrupt states. We have one for processing
economically bankrupt states. It's the IMF Sovereign
Bankruptcy Plan, OK? We argue about it every time we use it. Argentina just went through it,
broke a lot of rules. They got out on the far end, we said,
"Fine, don't worry about it." It's transparent. A certain
amount of certainty gives the sense of a non-zero outcome. We don't have one for processing
politically bankrupt states that, frankly, everybody wants gone. Like Saddam, like Mugabe,
like Kim Jong-Il -- people who kill in hundreds
of thousands or millions. Like the 250,000 dead so far in Sudan. What would an A to Z system look like? I'm going to distinguish
between what I call front half and back half. And let's call this red line,
I don't know, mission accomplished. (Laughter) (Applause) What we have extant right now, at the beginning of this system, is the U.N.
Security Council as a grand jury. What can they do? They can indict your ass. They can debate it. They can
write it on a piece of paper. They can put it in an envelope
and mail it to you, and then say in no uncertain
terms, "Please cut that out." (Laughter) That gets you about four million dead
in Central Africa over the 1990s. That gets you 250,000 dead
in the Sudan in the last 15 months. Everybody's got to answer
their grandchildren some day what you did
about the holocaust in Africa, and you better have an answer. We don't have anything to translate
that will into action. What we do have is the U.S.-enabled
Leviathan Force that says, "You want me to take that guy down?
I'll take that guy down. I'll do it on Tuesday. It will cost
you 20 billion dollars." (Laughter) But here's the deal. As soon as I can't find
anybody else to air out, I leave the scene immediately. That's called the Powell Doctrine. Way downstream we have
the International Criminal Court. 