I opened a blind man's head. I didn't make him think or reflect --
I cracked his head open, literally. We were walking with him
holding onto my shoulder, I miscalculated how much space
there was between us, and I knocked him into a gate. (Laughter) Five stitches in his forehead. At that moment, I felt like
the worst teacher in the world. I really didn't know how to apologize. Luckily, El Pulga is one of those people
who takes things quite well. And to this day, he says
that I was the coach who left the most important
mark on his career. (Laughter) The truth is, when I started working
at the institute for the blind, I was surprised by a lot of things. A lot of the things they did,
I never imagined they could: they swam, did exercise, played cards. They drank mate, and could pour it without burning themselves in the process. But when I saw them playing soccer -- that was amazing. They had a dirt field,
rusty goalposts and broken nets. The blind who attended the institute
would play their games there, just like I did at a field near my house. But they played without being able to see. The ball made a sound
so they could locate it. They had a guide
behind the rival team's goal to know where to kick the ball. And they used eye masks. There were guys
who could still see a little, and they wore eye masks
so everyone was equal. When I was more at ease with them,
I asked for a mask myself. I put it on and tried to play. I had played soccer all my life. This is where it got even more amazing: within two seconds, I didn't know
where I was standing. I had studied physical education
because I loved high performance. I started working
at the institute by chance. My other job was with the Argentinian
National Rowing Team, and I felt that was my thing. Here, everything was twice as hard. I'll never forget the first day
I did the warm-up with the team. I lined them up in front of me -- I used to do that with the rowing team -- and I said, "OK, everyone
bend down," going like this. When I looked up, two guys were seated, three were lying down
and others were squatting. (Laughter) How could I do here
the same things I was doing there? It took me a while. I started looking for tools
to learn from them, from the teachers who worked with them. I learned I couldn't explain a play
on a chalkboard like a coach does, but I could use a plastic tray
and some bottle caps so they could follow me by way of touch. I also learned they could run on a track if I ran with them, holding a rope. So we started looking for volunteers
to help us run with them. I was enjoying it, and finding purpose and meaning
in what we were doing. It was hard at first,
it was uncomfortable, but I decided to overcome the discomfort. And there came a time when it became the most
fascinating job I'd ever had. I think that's when I wondered: Why couldn't we be
a high-performance team as well? Of course, one thing was missing: I needed to find out what they wanted, the real protagonists of this story. Three hours of training,
playing soccer on that field, were not going to be enough. We would have to train differently. We started to train harder,
and the results were great; they asked for more. I came to understand
that they, too, wondered why they couldn't do high-performance. When we felt ready,
we knocked at CENARD's door. CENARD is the National Center
for High-Performance Sports here in Argentina. It was hard to get them
to hear what we had to say. But it was considerably more difficult to get the other athletes training there
to consider us their equals. In fact, they would let us use the field only when no other teams were using it. And we were known as "the blind ones." Not everyone knew
exactly what we were doing there. The 2006 World Championship
was a turning point in the team's history. It was held in Buenos Aires
for the first time. It was our chance to show everyone what we had been doing all that time. We made it to the finals. We were growing as a team. It was us against Brazil in the finals. They were the best team in the tournament. They won every game by a landslide. Hardly anyone believed
we could win that game. Hardly anyone -- except for us. During pre-game meetings, in the locker room, during each warm-up, it smelled of victory. I swear that smell exists. I smelled it several times with the team, but I remember it in particular,
the day before we played that final. The Argentine Football Association
had opened their doors to us. We were training at AFA, 