The first time I felt fear I was 41 years old. People have always said I was brave. When I was little,
I'd climb the highest tree, and I'd approach any animal fearlessly. I liked challenges. My father used to say, "Good steel can withstand
any temperature." And when I entered into
Colombian politics, I thought I'd be able
to withstand any temperature. I wanted to end corruption; I wanted to cut ties between politicians
and drug traffickers. The first time I was elected, it was because I called out, by name, corrupt and untouchable politicians. I also called out the president for his ties to the cartels. That's when the threats started. I had to send my very young children
out of the country one morning, hidden, all the way to the airport,
in the French ambassador's armored car. Days later, I was the victim of an attack,
but emerged unharmed. The following year, the Colombian people elected me
with the highest number of votes. I thought people applauded me
because I was brave. I, too, thought I was brave. But I wasn't. I had simply never before experienced true fear. That changed on February 23, 2002. At the time, I was a presidential
candidate in Colombia promoting my campaign agenda, when I was detained
by a group of armed men. They were wearing uniforms
with military garments. I looked at their boots; they were rubber. And I knew that the Colombian army
wore leather boots. I knew that these were FARC guerrillas. From that point on,
everything happened very quickly. The commando leader ordered us
to stop the vehicle. Meanwhile, one of his men
stepped on an antipersonnel mine and flew through the air. He landed, sitting upright, right in front of me. We made eye contact and it was then
that the young man understood: his rubber boot with his leg still in it had landed far away. (Sighs) He started screaming like crazy. And the truth is, I felt -- as I feel right now,
because I'm reliving these emotions -- I felt at that moment
that something inside of me was breaking and that I was being infected
with his fear. My mind went blank and couldn't think; it was paralyzed. When I finally reacted, I said to myself, "They're going to kill me, and I didn't say goodbye to my children." As they took me into
the deepest depths of the jungle, the FARC soldiers announced that if the government didn't negotiate, they'd kill me. And I knew that the government wouldn't negotiate. From that point on, I went to sleep in fear every night -- cold sweats, shaking, stomach ache, insomnia. But worse than that
was what was happening to my mind, because my memory was being erased:
all the phone numbers, addresses, names of very dear people, even significant life events. And so, I began to doubt myself,
to doubt my mental health. And with doubt came desperation, and with desperation came depression. I was suffering notorious
behavioral changes and it wasn't just paranoia
in moments of panic. It was distrust, it was hatred, and it was also the urge to kill. This, I realized when they had me
chained by the neck to a tree. They kept me outside that day, during a tropical downpour. I remember feeling an urgent need
to use the bathroom. "Whatever you have to do, you'll do in front of me, bitch," the guard screamed at me. And I decided at that moment to kill him. And for days, I was planning, trying to find
the right moment, the right way to do it, filled with hatred, filled with fear. Then suddenly, I rose up, snapped out of it and thought: "I'm not going to become one of them. I'm not going to become an assassin. I still have enough freedom to decide who I want to be." That's when I learned that fear brought me face to face with myself. It forced me to align my energies, to align my meridians. I learned that facing fear could become a pathway to growth. A lot of emotions arise
when I talk about all of this, but when I think back, I'm able to identify the steps I took to do it. I want to share three of them with you. The first was to be guided by principles. Because I realized that in the midst of panic
and mental block, if I followed my principles, I acted correctly. I remember the first night in a concentration camp
that the guerrillas had built in the middle of the jungle, with 12-foot-high bars, barbed wire, lookouts in the four corners and armed men pointing
guns at us 24 hours a day. That morning, the first morning, some men arrived, yelling: "Count off! Count off!" My fellow hostages woke up, startled, and began to identify themselves
in numbered sequence. But when it was my turn, I said, "Ingrid Betancourt. If you want to know if I'm here,
call me by my name." The guards' fury was nothing compared
to that of the other hostages, because, obviously they were scared -- we were all scared -- and they were afraid that, because of me,
they would be punished. But for me, beyond fear was the need
to defend my identity, to not let them turn me into
a thing or a number. That was one of the principles: to defend what I considered to be human dignity. But make no mistake: the guerrillas had it all very well analyzed -- they had been kidnapping for years, and they had developed a technique to break us, to defeat us, to divide us. And so, the second step was to learn how to build
supportive trust, to learn how to unite. The jungle is like a different planet. It's a world of shadows, of rain, with the hum of millions of bugs -- 