The first patient to ever be 
treated with an antibiotic was a policeman in Oxford. On his day off from work, he was scratched by a rose thorn
while working in the garden. That small scratch became infected. Over the next few days, 
his head was swollen with abscesses, and in fact his eye was so infected that they had to take it out, and by February of 1941, this poor man was on the verge of dying. He was at Radcliffe Infirmary in Oxford, and fortunately for him, a small team of doctors led by a Dr. Howard Florey had managed to synthesize a very small amount of penicillin, a drug that had been discovered 12 years before by Alexander Fleming but had never actually been 
used to treat a human, and indeed no one even 
knew if the drug would work, if it was full of impurities 
that would kill the patient, but Florey and his team figured if they had to use it, 
they might as well use it on someone who was going to die anyway. So they gave Albert Alexander, this Oxford policeman, the drug, and within 24 hours, he started getting better. His fever went down, 
his appetite came back. Second day, he was doing much better. They were starting to 
run out of penicillin, so what they would do 
was run with his urine across the road to re-synthesize 
the penicillin from his urine and give it back to him, and that worked. Day four, well on the way to recovery. This was a miracle. Day five, they ran out of penicillin, and the poor man died. So that story didn't end that well, but fortunately for 
millions of other people, like this child who was treated 
again in the early 1940s, who was again dying of a sepsis, and within just six days, you can see, recovered thanks to this 
wonder drug, penicillin. Millions have lived, and global health has been transformed. Now, antibiotics have been used for patients like this, but they've also been 
used rather frivolously in some instances, for treating someone 
with just a cold or the flu, which they might not have 
responded to an antibiotic, and they've also been 
used in large quantities sub-therapeutically, which
means in small concentrations, to make chicken and hogs grow faster. Just to save a few pennies
on the price of meat, we've spent a lot of 
antibiotics on animals, not for treatment, not for sick animals, but primarily for growth promotion. Now, what did that lead us to? Basically, the massive use of antibiotics around the world has imposed such large
selection pressure on bacteria that resistance is now a problem, because we've now selected for just the resistant bacteria. And I'm sure you've all read
about this in the newspapers, you've seen this in every magazine that you come across, but I really want you to appreciate the significance of this problem. This is serious. The next slide I'm about to show you is 
of carbapenem resistance in acinetobacter. Acinetobacter is a nasty hospital bug, and carbapenem is pretty much the strongest class of antibiotics that we can throw at this bug. And you can see in 1999 this is the pattern of resistance, mostly under about 10 percent
across the United States. Now watch what happens 
when we play the video. So I don't know where you live, but wherever it is, it certainly is a lot worse now than it was in 1999, and that is the problem of antibiotic resistance. It's a global issue affecting both rich and poor countries, and at the heart of it, 
you might say, well, isn't this really just a medical issue? If we taught doctors how not 
to use antibiotics as much, if we taught patients how 
not to demand antibiotics, perhaps this really wouldn't be an issue, and maybe the pharmaceutical companies should be working harder to develop more antibiotics. Now, it turns out that there's something 
fundamental about antibiotics which makes it different from other drugs, which is that if I misuse antibiotics or I use antibiotics, not only am I affected but 
others are affected as well, in the same way as if I 
choose to drive to work or take a plane to go somewhere, that the costs I impose on others through global climate change go everywhere, and I don't necessarily take
these costs into consideration. This is what economists might 
call a problem of the commons, and the problem of the commons is exactly what we face in the case 
of antibiotics as well: 