So, here's a prediction. If we get our cities right, we just might survive the 21st century. We get them wrong, and we're done for. Cities are the most extraordinary
experiment in social engineering that we humans have ever come up with. If you live in a city, and even if you live in a slum -- which 20 percent of the world's
urban population does -- you're likely to be healthier,
wealthier, better educated and live longer than your country cousins. There's a reason why three million people
are moving to cities every single week. Cities are where the future happens first. They're open, they're creative,
they're dynamic, they're democratic, they're cosmopolitan, they're sexy. They're the perfect antidote
to reactionary nationalism. But cities have a dark side. They take up just three percent
of the world's surface area, but they account for more than 75 percent
of our energy consumption, and they emit 80 percent
of our greenhouse gases. There are hundreds of thousands
of people who die in our cities every single year from violence, and millions more who are killed
as a result of car accidents and pollution. In Brazil, where I live, we've got 25 of the 50 most homicidal
cities on the planet. And a quarter of our cities
have chronic water shortages -- and this, in a country with 20 percent
of the known water reserves. So cities are dual-edged. Part of the problem is that, apart from a handful of megacities
in the West and the Far East, we don't know that much
about the thousands of cities in Africa, in Latin America, in Asia, where 90 percent of all future
population growth is set to take place. So why this knowledge gap? Well, part of the problem is that we still see the world
through the lens of nation-states. We're still locked
in a 17th-century paradigm of parochial national sovereignty. And yet, in the 1600's, when nation-states were really
coming into their own, less than one percent
of the world's population resided in a city. Today, it's 54 percent. And by 2050, it will be
closer to 70 percent. So the world has changed. We have these 193 nation-states, but we have easily as many cities
that are beginning to rival them in power and influence. Just look at New York. The Big Apple has 8.5 million people and an annual budget
of 80 billion dollars. Its GDP is 1.5 trillion, which puts it higher
than Argentina and Australia, Nigeria and South Africa. Its roughly 40,000 police officers means it has one of the largest
police departments in the world, rivaling all but
the largest nation-states. But cities like New York 