Let's say you despise Western democracy. Democracy, in all its trappings, free elections, town halls, endless debates about
the proper role of government. Too messy, too unpredictable, too constraining for your taste. And the way these democracies
band together and lecture everyone else about individual rights and freedoms -- it gets under your skin. So what to do about it? You can call out the hypocrisy
and failures of Western democracies and explain how your way is better, but that's never really worked for you. What if you could get the people whose support is the very foundation
of these democracies to start questioning the system? Make the idea occur in their own minds that democracy and its institutions
are failing them, their elite are corrupt puppet masters and the country they knew is in free fall. To do that, you'll need to infiltrate
the information spheres of these democracies. You'll need to turn
their most powerful asset -- an open mind -- into their greatest vulnerability. You'll need people to question the truth. Now, you'll be familiar of hacking
and leaks that happened in 2016. One was the Democratic
National Committee's networks, and the personal email
accounts of its staff, later released on WikiLeaks. After that, various online personas, like a supposed Romanian cybercriminal
who didn't speak Romanian, aggressively pushed news
of these leaks to journalists. The media took the bait. They were consumed by how much
the DNC hated Bernie. At the time, it was that narrative
that far outshined the news that a group of Russian government
sponsored hackers who we called "Advanced
Persistent Threat 28," or "APT28" for short, was carrying out
these operations against the US. And there was no shortage of evidence. This group of Russian government hackers
hadn't just appeared out of nowhere in 2016. We had started tracking
this group back in 2014. And the tools that APT28 used
to compromise its victims' networks demonstrated a thoughtful,
well-resourced effort that had taken place for now over a decade in Moscow's time zone from about 9 am to 6 pm. APT28 loved to prey on the emails
and contacts of journalists in Chechnya, 