Good evening. My journey to this stage began when I came to America at the age of 17. You see, I'm one
of the 84 million Americans who are immigrants or children of immigrants. Each of us has a dream when we come here, a dream that usually has to be rewritten and always has to be repurposed. I was one of the lucky ones. My revised dream
led me to the work I do today: training immigrants
to run for public office and leading a movement
for inclusive democracy. But I don't want you to think
it was a cakewalk, that America opened its arms wide
and welcomed me. It's still not doing that. And I've learned
a few lessons along the way that I wanted to share with you, because I think that together we can make American democracy better and stronger. I was born in India, the world's largest democracy, and when I was four, my family moved to Belize, the world's smallest democracy perhaps. And at the age of 17, I moved to the United States, the world's greatest democracy. I came because I wanted
to study English literature. You see, as a child,
I buried my nose in books, and I thought, why not make a living
doing that as an adult? But after I graduated from college and got a graduate degree, I found myself moving
from one less ideal job to another. Maybe it was the optimism
that I had about America that made me take a while to understand that things were not going to change. The door that I thought was open was actually just slightly ajar -- this door of America that would open wide
if you had the right name, the right skin color, the right networks, but could just slam in your face if you had the wrong religion, the wrong immigration status, the wrong skin color. And I just couldn't accept that. So I started a career
as a social entrepreneur, starting an organization
for young people like myself -- I was young at the time
that I started it -- who traced their heritage
to the Indian subcontinent. In that work, I became and advocate
for South Asians and other immigrants. I lobbied members of Congress
on policy issues. I volunteered on election day
to do exit polling. But I couldn't vote,
and I couldn't run for office. So in 2000, when it was announced that the citizenship application fee
was going to more than double from 95 dollars to 225 dollars, I decided it was time to apply
before I could no longer afford it. I filled out a long application, answering questions about
my current and my past affiliations. And once the application was submitted, there were fingerprints to be taken, a test to study for, endless hours of waiting in line. You might call it extreme vetting. And then in December of 2000, I joined hundreds of other immigrants in a hall in Brooklyn where we pledged our loyalty to a country that we had
long considered home. My journey from international student
to American citizen took 16 years, a short timeline when you compare it
to other immigrant stories. And soon after I had taken
that formal step to becoming an American, the attacks of September 11, 2001, changed the immigration landscape
for decades to come. My city, New York City, was reeling and healing, and in the midst of it, we were in an election cycle. Two things happened as we coped with loss and recovery
in New York City. Voters elected Michael Bloomberg
mayor of New York City. We also adopted by ballot referendum the Office of Immigrant Affairs
for the City of New York. Five months after that election, the newly elected mayor appointed me the first Commissioner
of Immigrant Affairs for this newly established office. I want you to come back to that time. I was a young immigrant woman from Belize. I had basically floundered
in various jobs in America before I started
a community-based organization in a church basement in Queens. The attacks of September 11
sent shock waves through my community. People who were members of my family,
young people I had worked with, were experiencing harassment at schools, at workplaces
and in airports. And now I was going
to represent their concerns in government. No job felt more perfect for me. And here are two things I learned
when I became Commissioner. First, well-meaning New Yorkers who were in city government
holding government positions had no idea how scared immigrants were of law enforcement. Most of us don't really know
the difference, do we, between a sheriff
and local police and the FBI. And most of us,
when we see someone in uniform going through our neighborhoods feel curiosity, if not concern. So if you're an undocumented parent, every day when you say
goodbye to your child, send them off to school and go to work, you don't know what the chances are that you're going to see them
at the end of the day. Because a raid at your workplace, a chance encounter with local police could change the course
of your life forever. The second thing I learned
is that when people like me, who understood that fear, who had learned a new language,
who had navigated new systems, when people like us
were sitting at the table, we advocated for our communities' needs
in a way that no one else could or would. I understood what that feeling
of fear was like. People in my family were experiencing it. Young people I had worked with
were being harassed, not just by classmates, but also by their teachers. My husband, then boyfriend, thought twice before he put
a backpack on or grew a beard because he traveled so much. What I learned in 2001
was that my vote mattered but that my voice
and vantage point also mattered. And it's these three things -- immigrants' votes,
voices and vantage points -- that I think can help
make our democracy stronger. We actually have the power to change the outcome of elections, to introduce new issues
into the policy debate and to change the face
of the pale, male, stale leadership that we have in our country today. So how do we do that? Well, let's talk first about votes. It will come as no surprise to you that the majority of voters
in America are white. But it might surprise you to know that one in three voters
are black, Latino or Asian. But here's the thing: it doesn't just matter who can vote,
it matters who does vote. So in 2012, half of the Latino
and Asian-American voters did not vote. And these votes matter
not just in presidential elections. They matter in local and state elections. In 2015, Lan Diep, the eldest son of political
refugees from Vietnam, ran for a seat
in the San Jose City Council. He lost that election by 13 votes. This year, he dusted off
those campaign shoes and went back to run for that seat, and this time he won, by 12 votes. Every one of our votes matters. And when people like Lan
are sitting at the policy table, they can make a difference. We need those voices. We need those voices in part because American leadership does not look like America's residents. There are over 500,000
local and state offices in America. Fewer than 2 percent of those offices
are held by Asian-Americans or Latinos, the two largest immigrant groups
in our country. In the city of Yakima, Washington, where 49 percent
of the population is Latino, there has never been a Latino
on the city council until this year. Three newly elected Latinas
joined the Yakima City Council in 2016. 