Good afternoon. There's a medical revolution
happening all around us, and it's one that's going
to help us conquer some of society's most dreaded conditions, including cancer. The revolution is called angiogenesis, and it's based on the process
that our bodies use to grow blood vessels. So why should we care about blood vessels? Well, the human body
is literally packed with them -- 60,000 miles worth in a typical adult. End to end, that would form a line
that would circle the earth twice. The smallest blood vessels
are called capillaries. We've got 19 billion of them
in our bodies. And these are the vessels of life, and as I'll show you,
they can also be the vessels of death. Now, the remarkable thing
about blood vessels is that they have this ability to adapt to whatever environment
they're growing in. For example, in the liver,
they form channels to detoxify the blood; in the lungs, they line air sacs
for gas exchange. In muscle, they corkscrew, so that muscles can contract
without cutting off circulation. And in nerves, they course along
like power lines, keeping those nerves alive. We get most of these blood vessels when we're actually still in the womb. And what that means is that as adults, blood vessels don't normally grow. Except in a few special circumstances. In women, blood vessels grow every month, to build the lining of the uterus. During pregnancy, they form the placenta, which connects mom and baby. And after injury, blood vessels
actually have to grow under the scab in order to heal a wound. And this is actually what it looks like, hundreds of blood vessels, all growing
toward the center of the wound. So the body has the ability to regulate the amount of blood vessels
that are present at any given time. It does this through an elaborate
and elegant system of checks and balances, stimulators and inhibitors
of angiogenesis, such that, when we need
a brief burst of blood vessels, the body can do this
by releasing stimulators, proteins called angiogenic factors, that act as natural fertilizer,
and stimulate new blood vessels to sprout. When those excess vessels
are no longer needed, the body prunes them back to baseline, using naturally-occurring
inhibitors of angiogenesis. There are other situations
where we start beneath the baseline, and we need to grow more blood vessels,
just to get back to normal levels -- for example, after an injury -- and the body can do that too,
but only to that normal level, that set point. But what we now know,
is that for a number of diseases, there are defects in the system, where the body can't prune back
extra blood vessels, or can't grow enough new ones
in the right place at the right time. And in these situations,
angiogenesis is out of balance. And when angiogenesis is out of balance, a myriad of diseases result. For example, insufficient angiogenesis --
not enough blood vessels -- leads to wounds
that don't heal, heart attacks, legs without circulation,
death from stroke, nerve damage. And on the other end,
excessive angiogenesis -- too many blood vessels -- drives disease, and we see this in cancer, blindness, arthritis, obesity, Alzheimer's disease. In total, there are more
than 70 major diseases affecting more than a billion
people worldwide, that all look on the surface to be
different from one another, but all actually share
abnormal angiogenesis as their common denominator. And this realization is allowing
us to re-conceptualize the way that we actually
approach these diseases, by controlling angiogenesis. Now, I'm going to focus on cancer, because angiogenesis
is a hallmark of cancer -- every type of cancer. So here we go. This is a tumor: dark, gray, ominous
mass growing inside a brain. And under the microscope, you can see hundreds
of these brown-stained blood vessels, capillaries that are feeding cancer cells, bringing oxygen and nutrients. But cancers don't start out like this, and in fact, cancers don't start out
with a blood supply. They start out as small,
microscopic nests of cells, that can only grow to one half
a cubic millimeter in size. That's the tip of a ballpoint pen. Then they can't get any larger
because they don't have a blood supply, so they don't have
enough oxygen or nutrients. In fact, we're probably forming
these microscopic cancers all the time in our body. Autopsy studies from people
who died in car accidents have shown that about 40 percent of women
between the ages of 40 and 50 actually have microscopic
cancers in their breasts. About 50 percent of men
in their 50s and 60s have microscopic prostate cancers, and virtually 100 percent of us,
by the time we reach our 70s, will have microscopic cancers
growing in our thyroid. Yet, without a blood supply, most of these cancers
will never become dangerous. Dr. Judah Folkman, who was my mentor and who was the pioneer
of the angiogenesis field, once called this "cancer without disease." So the body's ability
to balance angiogenesis, when it's working properly, prevents blood vessels
from feeding cancers. And this turns out to be one of our most important
defense mechanisms against cancer. In fact, if you actually
block angiogenesis and prevent blood vessels
from ever reaching cancer cells, tumors simply can't grow up. But once angiogenesis occurs, cancers can grow exponentially. And this is actually how a cancer
goes from being harmless, to being deadly. Cancer cells mutate, and they gain the ability to release
lots of those angiogenic factors, natural fertilizer, that tip the balance in favor
of blood vessels invading the cancer. And once those vessels invade the cancer, it can expand,
it can invade local tissues, and the same vessels
that are feeding tumors allow cancer cells to exit
into the circulation as metastases. And unfortunately,
this late stage of cancer is the one at which
it's most likely to be diagnosed, when angiogenesis is already turned on, and cancer cells are growing like wild. So, if angiogenesis is a tipping point between a harmless cancer
and a harmful one, then one major part
of the angiogenesis revolution is a new approach to treating cancer by cutting off the blood supply. We call this antiangiogenic therapy, and it's completely different
from chemotherapy, because it selectively aims at the blood vessels
that are feeding the cancers. We can do this because tumor blood vessels
are unlike normal, healthy vessels we see in other places of the body -- they're abnormal,
they're very poorly constructed, and because of that,
they're highly vulnerable to treatments that target them. In effect, when we give cancer patients
antiangiogenic therapy -- here, an experimental drug for a glioma, which is a type of brain tumor -- you can see that there are
dramatic changes that occur when the tumor is being starved. Here's a woman with a breast cancer, being treated with the antiangiogenic
drug called Avastin, which is FDA approved. And you can see
that the halo of blood flow disappears after treatment. Well, I've just shown you
two very different types of cancer that both responded
to antiangiogenic therapy. So a few years ago, I asked myself, "Can we take this one step further
and treat other cancers, even in other species?" So here is a nine year-old
boxer named Milo, who had a very aggressive tumor called a malignant neurofibroma
growing on his shoulder. It invaded into his lungs. His veterinarian only gave him
three months to live. So we created a cocktail
of antiangiogenic drugs that could be mixed into his dog food, as well as an antiangiogenic cream, that could be applied
on the surface of the tumor. And within a few weeks of treatment, we were able to slow down
that cancer's growth, 