I moved back home 15 years ago after a 20-year stay in the United States, and Africa called me back. And I founded my country's first graphic design and new media college. And I called it the Zimbabwe
Institute of Vigital Arts. The idea, the dream, was really
for a sort of Bauhaus sort of school where new
ideas were interrogated and investigated, the creation of a new visual language based on the African creative heritage. We offer a two-year diploma to talented students who have
successfully completed their high school education. And typography's a very important
part of the curriculum and we encourage our students
to look inward for influence. Here's a poster designed
by one of the students under the theme "Education is a right." Some logos designed by my students. Africa has had a long
tradition of writing, but this is not such a well-known fact, and I wrote the book "Afrikan
Alphabets" to address that. The different types of writing in Africa, first was proto-writing, as illustrated by Nsibidi, which is the writing
system of a secret society of the Ejagham people in southern Nigeria. So it's a special-interest writing system. The Akan of people of Ghana
and [Cote d'Ivoire] developed Adinkra symbols
some 400 years ago, and these are proverbs,
historical sayings, objects, animals, plants, and my favorite Adinkra system is the first one at the top on the left. It's called Sankofa. It means, "Return and get
it." Learn from the past. This pictograph by the Jokwe
people of Angola tells the story
of the creation of the world. At the top is God,
at the bottom is man, mankind, and on the left is the sun,
on the right is the moon. All the paths lead to and from God. These secret societies
of the Yoruba, Kongo and Palo religions in Nigeria, Congo and Angola respectively, developed this intricate writing system which is alive and well
today in the New World in Cuba, Brazil and Trinidad and Haiti. In the rainforests of the Democratic
Republic of Congo, in the Ituri society, the men pound out a cloth
out of a special tree, and the women, who are also
the praise singers, paint interweaving patterns that are the same in structure as the polyphonic structures
that they use in their singing -- a sort of a musical score, if you may. In South Africa, Ndebele women use these symbols and other
geometric patterns to paint their homes in bright colors, and the Zulu women use the symbols in the beads that they weave into bracelets and necklaces. Ethiopia has had the longest
tradition of writing, with the Ethiopic script
that was developed in the fourth century A.D. and is used to write Amharic, which is spoken by over 24 million people. King Ibrahim Njoya of the Bamum
Kingdom of Cameroon 