I'm a bug lover, myself -- not from childhood, by the way, but rather late. When I bachelored, majoring in zoology
at Tel Aviv University, I kind of fell in love with bugs. And then, within zoology, I took the course
or the discipline of entomology, the science of insects. And then I thought to myself,
how can I be practical or help in the science of entomology? And then I moved to the world
of plant protection -- plant protection from insects, from bad bugs. And then within plant protection, I came into the discipline
of biological pest control, which we actually define as the use of living organisms to reduce populations
of noxious plant pests. So it's a whole discipline
in plant protection aimed at the reduction of chemicals. And biological pest control, by the way, or these "good bugs"
that we are talking about, they've existed in the world
for thousands and thousands of years, for a long, long time. But only in the last 120 years, people started, or people
knew more and more how to exploit, or how to use,
this biological control phenomenon, or in fact, natural control phenomenon, for their own needs. Because biological control phenomenon --
you can see it in your backyard. Just take a magnifying glass.
You see what I have here? That's a magnifier, times 10. You just open it, twist leaves, and you see a whole new world
of minute insects, or little spiders of one millimeter,
one-and-a-half, two millimeters long, and you can distinguish
between the good ones and the bad ones. So this phenomenon of natural control
exists literally everywhere. Here, in front of this building, I'm sure. Just have a look at the plants. So it's everywhere,
and we need to know how to exploit it. Well, let's go hand by hand and browse through just a few examples. What is a pest? What damage does it actually
inflict on the plant? And what is the natural enemy, the biological control agent,
or the "good bug" that we're talking about? In general, I'm going to talk
about insects and spiders, or mites, let us call them. Insects, those six-legged organisms and spiders or mites,
the eight-legged organisms. Let's have a look at that. Here is a devastating pest, a spider mite, because it does a lot
of webbing, like a spider. You see the mother in between, and two daughters, probably,
on the left and right, and a single egg on the right-hand side. And then you see
what kind of damage it can inflict. On your right-hand side,
you can see a cucumber leaf, in the middle, a cotton leaf, and on the left, a tomato leaf
with these little stipplings. They can literally turn
from green to white, because of the sucking, piercing
mouth parts of those spiders. But here comes nature,
that provides us with a good spider. This is a predatory mite --
just as small as a spider mite; one, two millimeters long,
not more than that -- running quickly, hunting,
chasing the spider mites. And here, you can see this lady
in action on your left-hand side -- just pierces, sucks the body fluids
on the left-hand side of the pest mite. And after five minutes,
this is what you see: just a typical dead corpse -- the shriveled, sucked-out,
dead corpse of the spider mite, and next to it, two satiated
individuals, predatory mites, a mother on the left-hand side,
a young nymph on the right-hand side. By the way, a meal for them for 24 hours, is about five of the spider mites,
of the bad mites, and-or 15 to 20 eggs of the pest mites. By the way, they are always hungry. (Laughter) And here is another example: aphids. It's springtime now in Israel. When temperatures rise sharply, you can see those bad ones,
those aphids, all over the plants -- in your hibiscus, in your lantana, in the young, fresh foliage
of the so-called spring flush. By the way, with aphids you have
only females, like Amazons. Females giving rise to females,
giving rise to other females. No males at all. Parthenogenesis, as it's so called. And they're very happy
with that, apparently. (Laughter) Here we can see the damage. Those aphids secrete a sticky,
sugary liquid called honeydew, and this just clogs
the upper parts of the plant. Here you see a typical cucumber leaf
that turned from green to black because of a black fungus, sooty mold,
which is covering it. And here comes the salvation,
through this parasitic wasp. Here we are not talking about a predator. Here we are talking a parasite -- not a two-legged parasite, but an eight-legged parasite, of course. This is a parasitic wasp, again, two millimeters long, slender,
a very quick and sharp flier. And here you can see
this parasite in action, like in an acrobatic maneuver. 