(Applause) Thank you very much. I have a few pictures, and I'll talk a little bit
about how I'm able to do what I do. All these houses are built from between 70 and 80 percent
recycled material, stuff that was headed to the mulcher,
the landfill, the burn pile. It was all just gone. This is the first house I built. This double front door here
with the three-light transom, that was headed to the landfill. Have a little turret there. And then these buttons
on the corbels here -- right there -- those are hickory nuts. And these buttons there -- those are chicken eggs. (Laughter) Of course, first you have breakfast, and then you fill the shell full
of Bondo and paint it and nail it up, and you have an architectural button
in just a fraction of the time. This is a look at the inside. You can see the three-light transom
there with the eyebrow windows. Certainly an architectural antique
headed to the landfill -- even the lockset
is probably worth 200 dollars. Everything in the kitchen was salvaged. There's a 1952 O'Keefe &amp; Merritt stove, if you like to cook -- cool stove. This is going up into the turret. I got that staircase for 20 dollars, including delivery to my lot. (Laughter) Then, looking up in the turret, you see there are bulges
and pokes and sags and so forth. Well, if that ruins your life, well, then, you shouldn't live there. (Laughter) This is a laundry chute. And this right here is a shoe last -- those are those cast-iron things
you see at antique shops. So I had one of those, so I made some low-tech gadgetry,
where you just stomp on the shoe last, and then the door flies open
and you throw your laundry down. And then if you're smart enough,
it goes on a basket on top of the washer. If not, it goes into the toilet. (Laughter) This is a bathtub I made, made out of scrap two-by-four. Started with the rim, and then glued
and nailed it up into a flat, corbeled it up and flipped it over, then did the two profiles on this side. It's a two-person tub. After all, it's not just
a question of hygiene, but there's a possibility
of recreation as well. (Laughter) Then, this faucet here
is just a piece of Osage orange. It looks a little phallic, but after all, it's a bathroom. (Laughter) This is a house based on a Budweiser can. It doesn't look like a can of beer, but the design take-offs
are absolutely unmistakable: the barley hops design
worked up into the eaves, then the dentil work comes directly
off the can's red, white, blue and silver. Then, these corbels going
down underneath the eaves are that little design
that comes off the can. I just put a can on a copier
and kept enlarging it until I got the size I want. Then, on the can it says, "This is the famous Budweiser beer, we know of no other beer,
blah, blah, blah." So we changed that and put, "This is the famous Budweiser house.
We don't know of any other house ..." and so forth and so on. This is a deadbolt. It's a fence from a 1930s shaper,
which is a very angry woodworking machine. And they gave me the fence,
but they didn't give me the shaper, so we made a deadbolt out of it. That'll keep bull elephants
out, I promise. (Laughter) And sure enough, we've had
no problems with bull elephants. (Laughter) The shower is intended
to simulate a glass of beer. We've got bubbles going up there,
then suds at the top with lumpy tiles. Where do you get lumpy tiles?
Well, of course, you don't. But I get a lot of toilets, and so you
just dispatch a toilet with a hammer, and then you have lumpy tiles. And then the faucet is a beer tap. (Laughter) Then, this panel of glass
is the same panel of glass that occurs in every middle-class
front door in America. 