I'm going to give you
four specific examples, I'm going to cover at the end about how a company called Silk
tripled their sales; how an artist named Jeff Koons
went from being a nobody to making a whole bunch of money
and having a lot of impact; to how Frank Gehry redefined
what it meant to be an architect. And one of my biggest failures
as a marketer in the last few years -- a record label I started
that had a CD called "Sauce." Before I can do that
I've got to tell you about sliced bread, and a guy named Otto Rohwedder. Now, before sliced bread
was invented in the 1910s I wonder what they said? Like the greatest invention
since the telegraph or something. But this guy named Otto Rohwedder
invented sliced bread, and he focused, like most inventors did,
on the patent part and the making part. And the thing about the invention
of sliced bread is this -- that for the first 15 years
after sliced bread was available no one bought it; no one knew about it; it was a complete and total failure. And the reason
is that until Wonder came along and figured out how to spread
the idea of sliced bread, no one wanted it. That the success of sliced bread, like the success of almost everything
we've talked about at this conference, is not always about what the patent
is like, or what the factory is like -- it's about can you get
your idea to spread, or not. And I think that the way
you're going to get what you want, or cause the change that you want
to change, to happen, is to figure out a way
to get your ideas to spread. And it doesn't matter to me
whether you're running a coffee shop or you're an intellectual,
or you're in business, or you're flying hot air balloons. I think that all this stuff applies
to everybody regardless of what we do. That what we are living in
is a century of idea diffusion. That people who can spread ideas,
regardless of what those ideas are, win. When I talk about it
I usually pick business, because they make the best pictures
that you can put in your presentation, and because it's the easiest
sort of way to keep score. But I want you to forgive me
when I use these examples because I'm talking about anything
that you decide to spend your time to do. At the heart of spreading ideas
is TV and stuff like TV. TV and mass media made it really easy
to spread ideas in a certain way. I call it the "TV-industrial complex." The way the TV-industrial complex works,
is you buy some ads, interrupt some people,
that gets you distribution. You use the distribution you get
to sell more products. You take the profit
from that to buy more ads. And it goes around and around and around, the same way that the military-industrial
complex worked a long time ago. That model of,
and we heard it yesterday -- if we could only get
onto the homepage of Google, if we could only figure out
how to get promoted there, or grab that person by the throat, and tell them about what we want to do. If we did that then everyone would pay
attention, and we would win. Well, this TV-industrial complex informed
my entire childhood and probably yours. I mean, all of these products succeeded
because someone figured out how to touch people in a way
they weren't expecting, in a way they didn't
necessarily want, with an ad, over and over again until they bought it. And the thing that's happened is,
they canceled the TV-industrial complex. That just over the last few years, what anybody who markets
anything has discovered is that it's not working
the way that it used to. This picture is really fuzzy, I apologize;
I had a bad cold when I took it. (Laughter) But the product in the blue box
in the center is my poster child. I go to the deli; I'm sick;
I need to buy some medicine. The brand manager for that blue product
spent 100 million dollars trying to interrupt me in one year. 100 million dollars interrupting me
with TV commercials and magazine ads and Spam and coupons and shelving
allowances and spiff -- all so I could ignore
every single message. And I ignored every message because I don't have
a pain reliever problem. I buy the stuff in the yellow box
because I always have. And I'm not going to invest a minute
of my time to solve her problem, because I don't care. Here's a magazine called "Hydrate."
It's 180 pages about water. (Laughter) Articles about water, ads about water. Imagine what the world
was like 40 years ago, with just the Saturday Evening Post
and Time and Newsweek. Now there are magazines about water. New product from Coke Japan: water salad. (Laughter) Coke Japan comes out
with a new product every three weeks, because they have no idea
what's going to work and what's not. I couldn't have written
this better myself. It came out four days ago -- I circled the important parts
so you can see them here. They've come out... Arby's is going to spend
85 million dollars promoting an oven mitt with the voice of Tom Arnold, hoping that that will get people to go
to Arby's and buy a roast beef sandwich. (Laughter) Now, I had tried to imagine what could
possibly be in an animated TV commercial featuring Tom Arnold,
that would get you to get in your car, drive across town
and buy a roast beef sandwich. (Laughter) Now, this is Copernicus, and he was right, when he was talking to anyone
who needs to hear your idea. "The world revolves around me." Me, me, me, me. My favorite person -- me. I don't want to get email
from anybody; I want to get "memail." (Laughter) So consumers, and I don't just mean
people who buy stuff at the Safeway; I mean people at the Defense Department
who might buy something, or people at, you know, the New Yorker
who might print your article. Consumers don't care about you
at all; they just don't care. Part of the reason is -- they've got
way more choices than they used to, and way less time. And in a world where we have
too many choices and too little time, the obvious thing to do
is just ignore stuff. And my parable here
is you're driving down the road and you see a cow, and you keep driving
because you've seen cows before. Cows are invisible. Cows are boring. Who's going to stop and pull over
and say -- "Oh, look, a cow." Nobody. (Laughter) But if the cow was purple --
isn't that a great special effect? I could do that again if you want. If the cow was purple,
you'd notice it for a while. I mean, if all cows were purple
you'd get bored with those, too. The thing that's going to decide
what gets talked about, what gets done, what gets changed, what gets purchased, what gets built, is: "Is it remarkable?" And "remarkable" is a really cool word, because we think it just means "neat," but it also means
"worth making a remark about." And that is the essence
of where idea diffusion is going. That two of the hottest cars
in the United States is a 55,000-dollar giant car, big enough to hold a Mini in its trunk. People are paying full price for both, and the only thing they have in common is that they don't have
anything in common. (Laughter) Every week, the number one
best-selling DVD in America changes. It's never "The Godfather,"
it's never "Citizen Kane," it's always some third-rate movie
with some second-rate star. But the reason it's number one
is because that's the week it came out. Because it's new, because it's fresh. People saw it and said
"I didn't know that was there" and they noticed it. Two of the big success stories
of the last 20 years in retail -- one sells things that are
super-expensive in a blue box, and one sells things that are
as cheap as they can make them. The only thing they have in common
is that they're different. We're now in the fashion business,
no matter what we do for a living, we're in the fashion business. And people in the fashion business know what it's like to be in the fashion
business -- they're used to it. The rest of us have to figure out
how to think that way. How to understand that it's not about interrupting
people with big full-page ads, or insisting on meetings with people. But it's a totally different
sort of process that determines which ideas spread,
and which ones don't. They sold a billion dollars'
worth of Aeron chairs by reinventing
what it meant to sell a chair. They turned a chair from something
the purchasing department bought, to something that was a status symbol
about where you sat at work. 