Today I'm going to talk
about technology and society. The Department of Transport
estimated that last year 35,000 people died
from traffic crashes in the US alone. Worldwide, 1.2 million people
die every year in traffic accidents. If there was a way we could eliminate
90 percent of those accidents, would you support it? Of course you would. This is what driverless car technology
promises to achieve by eliminating the main
source of accidents -- human error. Now picture yourself
in a driverless car in the year 2030, sitting back and watching
this vintage TEDxCambridge video. (Laughter) All of a sudden, the car experiences mechanical failure
and is unable to stop. If the car continues, it will crash into a bunch
of pedestrians crossing the street, but the car may swerve, hitting one bystander, killing them to save the pedestrians. What should the car do,
and who should decide? What if instead the car
could swerve into a wall, crashing and killing you, the passenger, in order to save those pedestrians? This scenario is inspired
by the trolley problem, which was invented
by philosophers a few decades ago to think about ethics. Now, the way we think
about this problem matters. We may for example
not think about it at all. We may say this scenario is unrealistic, incredibly unlikely, or just silly. But I think this criticism
misses the point because it takes
the scenario too literally. Of course no accident
is going to look like this; no accident has two or three options where everybody dies somehow. Instead, the car is going
to calculate something like the probability of hitting
a certain group of people, if you swerve one direction
versus another direction, you might slightly increase the risk
to passengers or other drivers versus pedestrians. It's going to be
a more complex calculation, but it's still going
to involve trade-offs, and trade-offs often require ethics. We might say then,
"Well, let's not worry about this. Let's wait until technology
is fully ready and 100 percent safe." Suppose that we can indeed
eliminate 90 percent of those accidents, or even 99 percent in the next 10 years. What if eliminating
the last one percent of accidents requires 50 more years of research? Should we not adopt the technology? That's 60 million people
dead in car accidents if we maintain the current rate. So the point is, waiting for full safety is also a choice, and it also involves trade-offs. People online on social media
have been coming up with all sorts of ways to not think about this problem. One person suggested
the car should just swerve somehow in between the passengers -- (Laughter) and the bystander. Of course if that's what the car can do,
that's what the car should do. We're interested in scenarios
in which this is not possible. And my personal favorite
was a suggestion by a blogger to have an eject button in the car
that you press -- (Laughter) just before the car self-destructs. (Laughter) So if we acknowledge that cars
will have to make trade-offs on the road, how do we think about those trade-offs, and how do we decide? Well, maybe we should run a survey
to find out what society wants, because ultimately, regulations and the law
are a reflection of societal values. So this is what we did. With my collaborators, 