A few years ago, my mom developed rheumatoid arthritis. Her wrists, knees and toes swelled up,
causing crippling, chronic pain. She had to file for disability. She stopped attending our local mosque. Some mornings it was too painful
for her to brush her teeth. I wanted to help. But I didn't know how. I'm not a doctor. So, what I am is a historian of medicine. So I started to research
the history of chronic pain. Turns out, UCLA has an entire
history of pain collection in their archives. And I found a story --
a fantastic story -- of a man who saved -- rescued --
millions of people from pain; people like my mom. Yet, I had never heard of him. There were no biographies
of him, no Hollywood movies. His name was John J. Bonica. But when our story begins, he was better known as
Johnny "Bull" Walker. It was a summer day in 1941. The circus had just arrived
in the tiny town of Brookfield, New York. Spectators flocked to see
the wire-walkers, the tramp clowns -- if they were lucky, the human cannonball. They also came to see the strongman,
Johnny "Bull" Walker, a brawny bully who'd pin you for a dollar. You know, on that particular day,
a voice rang out over the circus P.A. system. They needed a doctor urgently,
in the live animal tent. Something had gone wrong
with the lion tamer. The climax of his act had gone wrong, and his head was stuck
inside the lion's mouth. He was running out of air; the crowd watched in horror as he struggled and then passed out. When the lion finally did relax its jaws, the lion tamer just slumped
to the ground, motionless. When he came to a few minutes later, he saw a familiar figure hunched over him. It was Bull Walker. The strongman had given the lion tamer
mouth-to-mouth, and saved his life. Now, the strongman hadn't told anyone, but he was actually
a third-year medical student. He toured with the circus
during summers to pay tuition, but kept it a secret
to protect his persona. He was supposed to be
a brute, a villain -- not a nerdy do-gooder. His medical colleagues didn't
know his secret, either. As he put it, "If you were
an athlete, you were a dumb dodo." So he didn't tell them about the circus, or about how he wrestled professionally
on evenings and weekends. He used a pseudonym like Bull Walker, or later, the Masked Marvel. He even kept it a secret that same year, when he was crowned
the Light Heavyweight Champion of the world. Over the years, John J. Bonica
lived these parallel lives. He was a wrestler; he was a doctor. He was a heel; he was a hero. He inflicted pain, and he treated it. 