Cities are like siblings
in a large polygamous family. Each one has a unique personality
and is headed in a distinct direction. But they all have somewhat shared origins. Sometimes I think postcolonial cities
are like the children of the two least-favorite wives, who are constantly being asked, "Ah, why can't you be
more like your sister?" (Laughter) The "why" of cities is largely the same,
no matter where they are: an advantageous location that makes
trade and administration possible; the potential for scalable opportunities for the skilled and unskilled alike; a popular willingness
to be in constant flux and, of course, resilience. The "how" of cities, however,
is a whole other story. How are they run? How do they grow? How do they decide who belongs
and who doesn't? Lagos is my home. You can always find the Nigerians by following the noise
and the dancing, right? (Laughter) Like any major city,
that place is a lot of things, many of which are highly contradictory. Our public transportation
doesn't quite work, so we have these privately owned
bright yellow buses that regularly cause accidents. Luxury car showrooms line badly maintained
and often flooded roads. Street evangelism is only
slightly less ubiquitous than street harassment. Sex workers sometimes
have two degrees, a bank job and a prominent role in church. (Laughter) On any given day, there can be either a party
or a burned body in the middle of a street. There is so much that is possible in Lagos and so much that isn't, and very often the difference
between possibility and impossibility is simply who you are, and if you're lucky enough,
who you're connected to. Belonging in Lagos is a fluid concept determined by ethnic origin,
sexual orientation, gender, but most visibly and often most violently, class. Before Nigeria became a country, fisherpeople from the inland creeks
started to come down the Lagos lagoon and establish villages along the coast. About 60 years later, my grandfather,
Oludotun Adekunle Kukoyi, also arrived in Lagos. Like me, he was an alumnus
of the University of Ibadan, a young member of the educated elite
in the independence era. Over time, he built an illustrious career
as a land surveyor, mapping out now-bustling neighborhoods when they were just waist-high wild grass. He died when I was nine. And by that time, my family,
like the families of those fisherpeople, knew Lagos as home. Among the Yoruba, we have a saying, 