For the last 50 years, a lot of smart, well-resourced people --
some of you, no doubt -- have been trying to figure out
how to reduce poverty in the United States. People have created and invested
millions of dollars into non-profit organizations with the mission of helping
people who are poor. They've created think tanks that study issues like education,
job creation and asset-building, and then advocated for policies to support
our most marginalized communities. They've written books and columns
and given passionate speeches, decrying the wealth gap
that is leaving more and more people entrenched at the bottom end
of the income scale. And that effort has helped. But it's not enough. Our poverty rates haven't changed
that much in the last 50 years, since the War on Poverty was launched. I'm here to tell you that we have overlooked
the most powerful and practical resource. Here it is: people who are poor. Up in the left-hand corner
is Jobana, Sintia and Bertha. They met when they all had small children, through a parenting class
at a family resource center in San Francisco. As they grew together
as parents and friends, they talked a lot about how hard it was to make money when your kids are little. Child care is expensive, more than they'd earn in a job. Their husbands worked, but they wanted to contribute
financially, too. So they hatched a plan. They started a cleaning business. They plastered neighborhoods with flyers and handed business cards out
to their families and friends, and soon, they had clients calling. Two of them would clean
the office or house and one of them would watch the kids. They'd rotate who'd cleaned
and who'd watch the kids. (Laughs) It's awesome, right? (Laughter) And they split the money three ways. It was not a full-time gig, no one could watch
the little ones all day. But it made a difference
for their families. Extra money to pay for bills
when a husband's work hours were cut. Money to buy the kids clothes
as they were growing. A little extra money in their pockets to make them feel some independence. Up in the top-right corner
is Theresa and her daughter, Brianna. Brianna is one of those kids with this sparkly, infectious,
outgoing personality. For example, when Rosie, a little girl who spoke only Spanish,
moved in next door, Brianna, who spoke only English, borrowed her mother's tablet
and found a translation app so the two of them could communicate. (Laughter) I know, right? Rosie's family credits Brianna
with helping Rosie to learn English. A few years ago, Brianna started to struggle academically. She was growing frustrated
and kind of withdrawn and acting out in class. And her mother was heartbroken
over what was happening. Then they found out that she was going
to have to repeat second grade and Brianna was devastated. Her mother felt hopeless
and overwhelmed and alone because she knew that her daughter
was not getting the support she needed, and she did not know how to help her. One afternoon, Theresa was catching up
with a group of friends, and one of them said, "Theresa, how are you?" And she burst into tears. After she shared her story,
one of her friends said, "I went through the exact same thing
with my son about a year ago." And in that moment, Theresa realized
that so much of her struggle was not having anybody
to talk with about it. So she created a support group
for parents like her. The first meeting was her
and two other people. But word spread, and soon
20 people, 30 people were showing up for these
monthly meetings that she put together. She went from feeling helpless to realizing how capable she was
of supporting her daughter, with the support of other people
who were going through the same struggle. And Brianna is doing fantastic --
she's doing great academically and socially. That in the middle is my man Baakir, standing in front of
BlackStar Books and Caffe, which he runs out of part of his house. As you walk in the door, Baakir greets you
with a "Welcome black home." (Laughter) Once inside, you can order
some Algiers jerk chicken, perhaps a vegan walnut burger, or jive turkey sammich. And that's sammich -- not sandwich. You must finish your meal
with a buttermilk drop, which is several steps above a donut hole and made from a very secret family recipe. For real, it's very secret,
he won't tell you about it. 