Imagine that you are a product designer. And you've designed a product, a new type of product,
called the human immune system. You're pitching this product to a skeptical, strictly
no-nonsense manager. Let's call him Bob. I think we all know
at least one Bob, right? How would that go? Bob, I've got this incredible idea for a completely new type
of personal health product. It's called the human immune system. I can see from your face that
you're having some problems with this. Don't worry. I know it's very complicated. I don't want to take you
through the gory details, I just want to tell you about some
of the amazing features of this product. First of all, it cleverly uses redundancy by having millions of copies
of each component -- leukocytes, white blood cells -- before they're actually needed, to create a massive buffer
against the unexpected. And it cleverly leverages diversity by having not just leukocytes
but B cells, T cells, natural killer cells, antibodies. The components don't really matter. The point is that together, this diversity of different approaches
can cope with more or less anything that evolution has been able to throw up. And the design is completely modular. You have the surface barrier
of the human skin, you have the very rapidly reacting
innate immune system and then you have the highly targeted
adaptive immune system. The point is, that if one system fails,
another can take over, creating a virtually foolproof system. I can see I'm losing you, Bob,
but stay with me, because here is the really killer feature. The product is completely adaptive. It's able to actually develop
targeted antibodies to threats that it's never
even met before. It actually also does this
with incredible prudence, detecting and reacting
to every tiny threat, and furthermore, remembering
every previous threat, in case they are ever encountered again. What I'm pitching you today
is actually not a stand-alone product. The product is embedded
in the larger system of the human body, and it works in complete harmony
with that system, to create this unprecedented level
of biological protection. So Bob, just tell me honestly,
what do you think of my product? And Bob may say something like, I sincerely appreciate
the effort and passion that have gone into your presentation, blah blah blah -- (Laughter) But honestly, it's total nonsense. You seem to be saying that the key
selling points of your product are that it is inefficient and complex. Didn't they teach you 80-20? And furthermore, you're saying
that this product is siloed. It overreacts, makes things up as it goes along and is actually designed
for somebody else's benefit. I'm sorry to break it to you,
but I don't think this one is a winner. If we went with Bob's philosophy, I think we'd actually end up
with a more efficient immune system. And efficiency is always important
in the short term. Less complex, more efficient,
more bang for the buck. Who could say no to that? Unfortunately, there's one
very tiny problem, and that is that the user
of this product, you or I, would probably die
within one week of the next winter, when we encountered a new strain
of the influenza virus. I first became interested
in biology and business, and longevity and resilience, when I was asked a very unusual question by the CEO of a global tech company. And the question was: What do we have to do to make sure
that our company lasts 100 years? A seemingly innocent question, but actually, it's a little trickier
than you might think, considering that the average
US public company now can expect a life span of only 30 years. That is less than half of the life span that its employees can expect to enjoy. Now, if you were the CEO
of such a company, badgered by investors
and buffeted by change, we might forgive you
for not even worrying too much about what happens 30 years out. But here's something that should
keep you awake at night: the probability that your company
will not be around in five year's time, on average, is now
a staggering 32 percent. That's a one in three chance
that your company will be taken over or will fail within just five years. Let's come back
to our tech CEO's question. Where better to turn
for advice than nature, that's been in the business
of life and death for longer than any company? As a lapsed biologist, I decided to immediately call
a real biologist, my friend Simon Levin, Professor of Biology and Mathematics
at Princeton University. Together, we looked at a variety
of biological systems, ranging from natural tropical rainforests through to managed forests and fisheries. And we asked ourselves the question: What makes these systems
resilient and enduring? And what we found
was that the same six principles that we saw underpinning
the miracle of the human immune system actually cropped up again and again, from redundancy through to embeddedness. In fact, we saw these principles
not only in biologically enduring systems, we also found them
being very characteristic of long-lived social systems, like the Roman Empire
and the Catholic Church, believe it or not. We also went on to look at business, and found that these very same properties
also characterized businesses that were resilient and long-lived, and we noted their absence
from ones which were short-lived. Let's first take a look at what happens
when the corporate immune system collapses. This beautiful building is part
of the Shitennoji Temple Complex in Osaka, Japan. In fact, it's one of the oldest
temples in Japan. It was built by a Korean artisan, because at the time,
Japan was not yet building temples. And this Korean artisan went on
to found a temple-building company. 