Shah Rukh Khan: Be it Mumbai or Delhi,
Chennai or Kolkata, all our big cities have
one great thing in common, they happily welcome people from 
smaller places arriving in search of work. What is also true is that
this warm welcome leads to consequences. Problems like housing
in these cities are born. Today we have with us a human settlement
expert and researcher: Dr. Gautam Bhan, who is re-imagining a solution
to this increasing problem. He will share with us the new picture
of urban India that he can see. TED Talks India New Thoughts
welcomes Dr. Gautam Bhan. Dr. Gautam Bhan, everyone. (Applause) Gautam Bhan: In this country,
until a few years ago, if you asked someone: "Where are you from?" the answer would be
Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata. You'd immediately ask again: "Where do you belong?" Until recently in India,
nobody was from a city; people only migrated to the city. This is changing. Urbanization is changing India, but are our cities prepared? Let's assume you were born somewhere else. Your parents worked as laborers all day. Then you too would have come
to a city for progress. Or maybe, like it happens today,
you were born in the city itself. One day you go out looking
for an accommodation in the city, to buy or maybe just to rent. Will you be able find an affordable home? The government says we are falling
short of at least 20 million homes. 20 million homes,
that's 100 million people. And this is not the shortage of <i>3 BHKs</i>
(bedroom hall kitchen). 95 percent of the shortage is for people earning
10 to 15,000 rupees per month. Will you be able to find
an affordable home in this budget? If this happened with you,
what would you do? Home is not a car
or some sort of jewellery. Home is food and clothes. Nobody can live without it. If you couldn't find a home
in a city to either buy or rent, you too would be driven to do
what most people end up doing. Make a home wherever possible. You too would make a <i>settlement.</i> The government may keep calling it a <i>slum,</i> but like the people living there, I too will call it a settlement. One hundred million are not homeless. They have homes. Homes they built on their own. But most of these homes
are in settlements. This is the truth
of an affordable home in India. The homes in settlements are cheap,
but not sturdy. The homes outside are sturdy,
but not cheap. (Applause) We will have to lay the foundation
of a new thought from here itself. A settlement is not a problem;
it is a solution. We just have to make it secure and sturdy. To fulfill the shortage
of 20 million homes you cannot make 20 million
25 square foot flats, and neither should you be making them. For example take the Karnataka government. 