(Guitar music) I was just thinking that I have been missing you way too long There's something inside this weary head that wants us to love just instead But I was just thinking, merely thinking I've got loads of pictures, I've got the one of you
in that dancing dress But man I feel silly in that dim light Just after doing you
by the sight of my Kodak delights, I am sinking, merely sinking I think about long distance rates
instead of kissing you babe I'm a singer without a song If I wait for you longer my affection is stronger and I ... I was just thinking, merely thinking that this boat is sinking I'm tired of postcards, especially the ones
with cute dogs and cupids I'm tired of calling you and missing you and dreaming I slept with you Don't get me wrong
I still desperately love you inside this weary head I just want us to love just instead But I was just thinking and thinking, merely thinking I think about long distance rates
instead of kissing you babe and time is running me still If I wait for you longer my affection is stronger I ... I was just thinking I ... I was just thinking that I'm tired of calling you once a week thinking of long distance rates
instead of kissing you So baby I'm sinking, merely sinking (Guitar music ends) (Applause) Thank you. Singing is sharing. When you sing, you have to know
what you're talking about intimately, and you have to be willing
to share this insight and give away a piece of yourself. I look for this intention
to share in everything, and I ask: what are the intentions
behind this architecture or this product or this restaurant or this meal? And if your intentions
are to impress people or to get the big applause at the end, then you are taking, not giving. And this is a song that's about -- it's the kind of song that everyone
has their version of. This song is called "Home," and it's sort of a "This is where
I'm from, nice to meet you all," kind of song. (Laughter) (Applause) (Piano music) Home is the sound of birds
early in the morning Home is a song I've always remembered Home is the memory
of my first day in school Home is the books that I carry around Home is an alley in a faraway town 