I'm going to talk about consciousness. Why consciousness? Well, it's a curiously neglected subject, both in our scientific
and our philosophical culture. Now why is that curious? Well, it is the most important
aspect of our lives for a very simple, logical reason, namely, it's a necessary
condition on anything being important in our lives
that we're conscious. You care about science, philosophy,
music, art, whatever -- it's no good if you're
a zombie or in a coma, right? So consciousness is number one. The second reason is that when people do get interested in it,
as I think they should, they tend to say
the most appalling things. And then, even when they're
not saying appalling things and they're really trying
to do serious research, well, it's been slow.
Progress has been slow. When I first got interested
in this, I thought, well, it's a straightforward problem in biology. Let's get these brain stabbers
to get busy and figure out how it works in the brain. So I went over to UCSF and I talked to all the heavy-duty neurobiologists there, and they showed some impatience, as scientists often do when you
ask them embarrassing questions. But the thing that struck me is,
one guy said in exasperation, a very famous neurobiologist,
he said, "Look, in my discipline it's okay to be
interested in consciousness, but get tenure first. Get tenure first." Now I've been working
on this for a long time. I think now you might actually get tenure by working on consciousness. If so, that's a real step forward. Okay, now why then is this
curious reluctance and curious hostility to consciousness? Well, I think it's a combination
of two features of our intellectual culture that like to think they're
opposing each other but in fact they share
a common set of assumptions. One feature is the tradition
of religious dualism: Consciousness is not a part
of the physical world. It's a part of the spiritual world. It belongs to the soul, and the soul is not a part
of the physical world. That's the tradition of God,
the soul and immortality. There's another tradition
that thinks it's opposed to this but accepts the worst assumption. That tradition thinks that we are heavy-duty
scientific materialists: Consciousness is not a part
of the physical world. Either it doesn't exist at all,
or it's something else, a computer program
or some damn fool thing, but in any case it's not part of science. And I used to get in an argument
that really gave me a stomachache. Here's how it went. Science is objective,
consciousness is subjective, therefore there cannot be
a science of consciousness. Okay, so these twin
traditions are paralyzing us. It's very hard to get
out of these twin traditions. And I have only one real
message in this lecture, and that is, consciousness
is a biological phenomenon like photosynthesis, digestion, mitosis -- you know all the biological phenomena
-- and once you accept that, most, though not all, of the hard problems about consciousness simply evaporate. And I'm going to go through some of them. Okay, now I promised you to tell you some of the outrageous things
said about consciousness. One: Consciousness does not exist. It's an illusion, like sunsets. Science has shown sunsets
and rainbows are illusions. So consciousness is an illusion. Two: Well, maybe it exists,
but it's really something else. It's a computer program
running in the brain. Three: No, the only thing
that exists is really behavior. It's embarrassing how influential
behaviorism was, but I'll get back to that. And four: Maybe consciousness exists, but it can't make
any difference to the world. How could spirituality move anything? Now, whenever somebody
tells me that, I think, you want to see spirituality
move something? Watch. I decide consciously
to raise my arm, and the damn thing goes up. (Laughter) Furthermore, notice this: We do not say, "Well, it's a bit
like the weather in Geneva. Some days it goes up and some days
it doesn't go up." No. It goes up whenever
I damn well want it to. Okay. I'm going to tell
you how that's possible. Now, I haven't yet given you a definition. You can't do this if you
don't give a definition. People always say consciousness
is very hard to define. I think it's rather easy to define if you're not trying to give
a scientific definition. We're not ready
for a scientific definition, but here's a common-sense definition. Consciousness consists
of all those states of feeling or sentience or awareness. It begins in the morning when you
wake up from a dreamless sleep, and it goes on all day
until you fall asleep or die or otherwise become unconscious. Dreams are a form of consciousness
on this definition. Now, that's the common-sense definition.
That's our target. If you're not talking about that,
you're not talking about consciousness. But they think, "Well, if that's it,
that's an awful problem. How can such a thing exist
as part of the real world?" And this, if you've ever
had a philosophy course, this is known as the famous
mind-body problem. I think that has a simple solution too.
I'm going to give it to you. And here it is: All of our conscious
states, without exception, are caused by lower-level
neurobiological processes in the brain, and they are realized in the brain as higher-level or system features. It's about as mysterious
as the liquidity of water. Right? The liquidity is not
an extra juice squirted out by the H2O molecules. It's a condition that the system is in. And just as the jar full of water
can go from liquid to solid depending on the behavior
of the molecules, so your brain can go
from a state of being conscious to a state of being unconscious, depending on the behavior
of the molecules. The famous mind-body
problem is that simple. All right? But now we get
into some harder questions. Let's specify the exact
features of consciousness, so that we can then answer
those four objections that I made to it. Well, the first feature is,
it's real and irreducible. You can't get rid of it. You see, the distinction
between reality and illusion is the distinction between how things consciously seem to us
and how they really are. It consciously seems like there's -- 