When I was a kid, I experienced something so powerful, I spent the rest of my life
searching for it, and in all the wrong places. What I experienced wasn't virtual reality. It was music. And this is where the story begins. That's me, listening to the Beatles' "White Album." And the look on my face is the feeling that I've been searching for ever since. Music goes straight to the emotional vein, into your bloodstream and right into your heart. It deepens every experience. Fellas? (Music) This is the amazing McKenzie Stubbert and Joshua Roman. Music -- (Applause) Yeah. Music makes everything
have more emotional resonance. Let's see how it does for this talk. The right piece of music
at the right time fuses with us on a cellular level. When I hear that one song from that one summer with that one girl, I'm instantly transported
back there again. Hey, Stacey. Here's a part of the story, though,
where I got a little greedy. I thought if I added more layers
on top of the music, I could make the feelings
even more powerful. So I got into directing music videos. This is what they looked like. That's my brother, Jeff. Sorry about this, Jeff. (Laughter) Here's me, just so we're even. Incredible moves. Should've been a dancer. (Laughter) These experiments grew, and in time, started
to look more like this. In both, I'm searching
for the same thing, though, to capture that lightning in a bottle. Except, I'm not. Adding moving pictures over the music
added narrative dimension, yes, but never quite equated the power that just raw music had for me on its own. This is not a great thing to realize
when you've devoted your life and professional career
to becoming a music video director. I kept asking myself,
did I take the wrong path? So I started thinking: if I could
involve you, the audience, more, I might be able to make you
feel something more as well. So Aaron Koblin and I began
auditioning new technologies that could put more of you
inside of the work, like your childhood home
in "The Wilderness Downtown," your hand-drawn portraits,
in "The Johnny Cash Project," and your interactive dreams in "3 Dreams of Black." We were pushing beyond the screen, trying to connect more deeply to people's hearts and imaginations. But it wasn't quite enough. It still didn't have the raw
experiential power of pure music for me. So I started chasing a new technology that I only had read about
in science fiction. And after years of searching,
I found a prototype. 