We are stealing nature from our children. Now, when I say this, I don't mean
that we are destroying nature that they will have wanted us to preserve, although that is
unfortunately also the case. What I mean here is that we've started
to define nature in a way that's so purist and so strict that under the definition
we're creating for ourselves, there won't be any nature
left for our children when they're adults. But there's a fix for this. So let me explain. Right now, humans use half of the world to live, to grow their crops
and their timber, to pasture their animals. If you added up all the human beings, we would weigh 10 times as much
as all the wild mammals put together. We cut roads through the forest. We have added little plastic particles
to the sand on ocean beaches. We've changed the chemistry of the soil
with our artificial fertilizers. And of course, we've changed
the chemistry of the air. So when you take your next breath, you'll be breathing in
42 percent more carbon dioxide than if you were breathing in 1750. So all of these changes, and many others, have come to be kind of lumped together
under this rubric of the "Anthropocene." And this is a term
that some geologists are suggesting we should give to our current epoch, given how pervasive
human influence has been over it. Now, it's still just a proposed epoch,
but I think it's a helpful way to think about the magnitude
of human influence on the planet. So where does this put nature? What counts as nature in a world
where everything is influenced by humans? So 25 years ago, environmental writer
Bill McKibben said that because nature
was a thing apart from man and because climate change meant that every centimeter of the Earth
was altered by man, then nature was over. In fact, he called his book
"The End of Nature." I disagree with this.
I just disagree with this. I disagree with this definition of nature,
because, fundamentally, we are animals. Right? Like, we evolved on this planet in the context of all the other animals
with which we share a planet, and all the other plants,
and all the other microbes. And so I think that nature is not that which is untouched
by humanity, man or woman. I think that nature
is anywhere where life thrives, anywhere where there are
multiple species together, anywhere that's green and blue
and thriving and filled with life and growing. And under that definition, things look a little bit different. Now, I understand that there
are certain parts of this nature that speak to us in a special way. Places like Yellowstone, or the Mongolian steppe, or the Great Barrier Reef or the Serengeti. Places that we think of
as kind of Edenic representations of a nature before
we screwed everything up. And in a way, they are less impacted
by our day to day activities. Many of these places
have no roads or few roads, so on, like such. But ultimately, even these Edens
are deeply influenced by humans. Now, let's just take
North America, for example, since that's where we're meeting. So between about 15,000 years ago
when people first came here, they started a process
of interacting with the nature that led to the extinction
of a big slew of large-bodied animals, from the mastodon
to the giant ground sloth, saber-toothed cats, all of these cool animals
that unfortunately are no longer with us. And when those animals went extinct, you know, the ecosystems
didn't stand still. Massive ripple effects
changed grasslands into forests, changed the composition of forest
from one tree to another. So even in these Edens, even in these perfect-looking places that seem to remind us
of a past before humans, we're essentially looking
at a humanized landscape. Not just these prehistoric humans,
but historical humans, indigenous people all the way up until the moment
when the first colonizers showed up. And the case is the same
for the other continents as well. Humans have just been involved in nature in a very influential way
for a very long time. Now, just recently, someone told me, "Oh, but there are still wild places." And I said, "Where? Where? I want to go." And he said, "The Amazon." And I was like, "Oh, the Amazon.
I was just there. 