Thank you. I have only got 18 minutes to explain something 
that lasts for hours and days, so I'd better get started. Let's start with a clip
from Al Jazeera's Listening Post. Richard Gizbert: Norway is a country that 
gets relatively little media coverage. Even the elections this past week
passed without much drama. And that's the Norwegian
media in a nutshell: not much drama. A few years back, Norway's public TV channel NRK decided to broadcast live coverage
of a seven-hour train ride -- seven hours of simple footage, a train rolling down the tracks. Norwegians, more than a million of them
according to the ratings, loved it. A new kind of reality TV show was born, and it goes against all the rules
of TV engagement. There is no story line, no script, no drama, no climax, and it's called Slow TV. For the past two months, Norwegians have been watching 
a cruise ship's journey up the coast, and there's a lot of fog on that coast. Executives at Norway's
National Broadcasting Service are now considering broadcasting
a night of knitting nationwide. On the surface, it sounds boring, because it is, but something about this TV experiment has gripped Norwegians. So we sent the Listening Post's
Marcela Pizarro to Oslo to find out what it is,
but first a warning: Viewers may find some of the images
in the following report disappointing. (Laughter) Thomas Hellum: And then follows
an eight-minute story on Al Jazeera about some strange
TV programs in little Norway. Al Jazeera. CNN. How did we get there? We have to go back to 2009, when one of my colleagues
got a great idea. Where do you get your ideas? In the lunchroom. So he said, why don't we make
a radio program marking the day of the German invasion
of Norway in 1940. We tell the story at the exact time
during the night. Wow. Brilliant idea, except this was just a couple of weeks
before the invasion day. So we sat in our lunchroom and discussed what other stories
can you tell as they evolve? What other things take a really long time? So one of us came up with a train. The Bergen Railway had its 
100-year anniversary that year It goes from western Norway
to eastern Norway, and it takes exactly the same time
as it did 40 years ago, over seven hours. (Laughter) So we caught our commissioning editors 
in Oslo, and we said, we want to make a documentary
about the Bergen Railway, and we want to make it in full length, and the answer was, "Yes, but how long will the program be?" "Oh," we said, "full length." "Yes, but we mean the program." And back and forth. Luckily for us, they met us with laughter,
very, very good laughter, so one bright day in September, we started a program that we thought
should be seven hours and four minutes. Actually, it turned out
to be seven hours and 14 minutes due to a signal failure
at the last station. We had four cameras, three of them pointing out
to the beautiful nature. Some talking to the guests,
some information. 