(Nature sounds) When I first began
recording wild soundscapes 45 years ago, I had no idea that ants, insect larvae, sea anemones and viruses created a sound signature. But they do. And so does every wild
habitat on the planet, like the Amazon rainforest
you're hearing behind me. In fact, temperate
and tropical rainforests each produce a vibrant animal orchestra, that instantaneous
and organized expression of insects, reptiles,
amphibians, birds and mammals. And every soundscape
that springs from a wild habitat generates its own unique signature, one that contains incredible
amounts of information, and it's some of that information
I want to share with you today. The soundscape is made
up of three basic sources. The first is the geophony, or the nonbiological sounds that occur in any given habitat, like wind in the trees, water in a stream, waves at the ocean shore,
movement of the Earth. The second of these is the biophony. The biophony is all of the sound that's generated by organisms
in a given habitat at one time and in one place. And the third is all of the sound
that we humans generate that's called anthrophony. Some of it is controlled,
like music or theater, but most of it is chaotic and incoherent, which some of us refer to as noise. There was a time when
I considered wild soundscapes to be a worthless artifact. They were just there,
but they had no significance. Well, I was wrong. What
I learned from these encounters was that careful listening gives
us incredibly valuable tools by which to evaluate
the health of a habitat across the entire spectrum of life. When I began recording in the late '60s, the typical methods
of recording were limited to the fragmented capture
of individual species like birds mostly, in the beginning, but later animals
like mammals and amphibians. To me, this was a little like trying
to understand the magnificence
of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony by abstracting the sound
of a single violin player out of the context of the orchestra and hearing just that one part. Fortunately, more and more institutions are implementing the more holistic models that I and a few of my colleagues
have introduced to the field of soundscape ecology. When I began recording
over four decades ago, I could record for 10 hours and capture one hour of usable material, good enough for an album
or a film soundtrack or a museum installation. Now, because of global warming, resource extraction, and human noise, among many other factors, it can take up to 1,000 hours or more to capture the same thing. Fully 50 percent of my archive comes from habitats so radically altered that they're either altogether silent or can no longer be heard
in any of their original form. The usual methods of evaluating a habitat have been done by visually
counting the numbers of species and the numbers of individuals
within each species in a given area. However, by comparing
data that ties together both density and diversity
from what we hear, I'm able to arrive at much
more precise fitness outcomes. And I want to show you some examples that typify the possibilities unlocked by diving into this universe. This is Lincoln Meadow. Lincoln
Meadow's a three-and-a-half-hour drive east of San Francisco
in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, at about 2,000 meters altitude, and I've been recording
there for many years. In 1988, a logging company
convinced local residents that there would be absolutely
no environmental impact from a new method they were trying called "selective logging," taking out a tree here and there rather than clear-cutting a whole area. With permission granted to record both before and after the operation, I set up my gear and captured
a large number of dawn choruses to very strict protocol
and calibrated recordings, because I wanted a really good baseline. This is an example of a spectrogram. A spectrogram is a graphic
illustration of sound with time from left
to right across the page -- 