There are more Chinese
restaurants in this country than McDonald's, Burger King, Kentucky
Fried Chicken and Wendy's, combined -- 40,000, actually. Chinese restaurants have played
an important role in American history, as a matter of fact. The Cuban missile crisis was resolved
in a Chinese restaurant called Yenching Palace in Washington, DC, which unfortunately is closed now, and about to be turned into Walgreen's. And the house where John Wilkes Booth planned the assassination
of Abraham Lincoln is also now a Chinese restaurant
called Wok and Roll, on H Street in Washington. (Laughter) And it's not completely gratuitous, because "wok" and "roll" --
Chinese food and Japanese foods, so it kind of works out. And Americans love
their Chinese food so much, they've actually brought it into space. NASA, for example, serves
thermostabilized sweet-and-sour pork on its shuttle menu for its astronauts. So, let me present the question to you: If our benchmark
for Americanness is apple pie, you should ask yourself:
how often do you eat apple pie, versus how often do you eat Chinese food? (Laughter) And if you think about it, a lot of the foods that we or Americans
think of as Chinese food are barely recognizable to Chinese. For example: beef with broccoli,
egg rolls, General Tso's Chicken, fortune cookies, chop suey,
the take-out boxes. For example, I took a whole bunch
of fortune cookies back to China, gave them to Chinese
to see how they would react. [What is this?] [Should I try it?] [Try it!] [What is this called?] [Fortune cookie.] (Laughter) [There's a piece of paper inside!] (Laughter) [What is this?] [You've won a prize!] [What is this?] [It's a fortune!] [Tasty!] So where are they from? The short answer is, actually,
they're from Japan. And in Kyoto, outside, there are still
small family-run bakeries that make fortune cookies,
as they did over 100 years ago, 30 years before fortune cookies
were introduced in the United States. If you see them side by side, there's yellow and brown. Theirs are actually flavored
with miso and sesame paste, so they're not as sweet as our version. So how did they get to the US? Well, the short answer is,
the Japanese immigrants came over, and a bunch of the bakers
introduced them -- including at least one in Los Angeles, and one here in San Francisco,
called Benkyodo, which is on the corner
of Sutter and Buchanan. Back then, they made fortune cookies
using very much the similar kind of irons that we saw back in Kyoto. The interesting question is: How do you go from fortune cookies
being something that is Japanese to being something that is Chinese? Well, we locked up all the Japanese
during World War II, including those that made fortune cookies. So that's when the Chinese moved in, saw a market opportunity and took over. (Laughter) So, fortune cookies:
invented by the Japanese, popularized by the Chinese, but ultimately consumed by Americans. They're more American than anything else. Another of my favorite dishes: General Tso's Chicken --
which, by the way, in the US Naval Academy is called Admiral Tso's Chicken. (Laughter) I love this dish. The original name of my book
was "The Long March of General Tso." And he has marched very far indeed, because he is sweet, he is fried,
and he is chicken -- all things that Americans love. (Laughter) He has marched so far, actually, that the chef who originally
invented the dish doesn't recognize it;
he's kind of horrified. Video: (In Chinese) Audience: (Laughter) He's in Taiwan right now. 