When I was in my 20s, I saw my very first psychotherapy client. I was a Ph.D. student
in clinical psychology at Berkeley. She was a 26-year-old woman named Alex. Now Alex walked into her first session
wearing jeans and a big slouchy top, and she dropped
onto the couch in my office and kicked off her flats and told me she was there
to talk about guy problems. Now when I heard this, I was so relieved. My classmate got an arsonist
for her first client. (Laughter) And I got a twentysomething
who wanted to talk about boys. This I thought I could handle. But I didn't handle it. With the funny stories
that Alex would bring to session, it was easy for me just to nod my head while we kicked the can down the road. "Thirty's the new 20," Alex would say, and as far as I could tell, she was right. Work happened later,
marriage happened later, kids happened later,
even death happened later. Twentysomethings like Alex and I
had nothing but time. But before long, my supervisor pushed me
to push Alex about her love life. I pushed back. I said, "Sure, she's dating down, she's sleeping with a knucklehead, but it's not like she's going
to marry the guy." And then my supervisor said, "Not yet, but she might marry
the next one. Besides, the best time
to work on Alex's marriage is before she has one." That's what psychologists
call an "Aha!" moment. That was the moment I realized,
30 is not the new 20. Yes, people settle down later
than they used to, but that didn't make Alex's 20s
a developmental downtime. That made Alex's 20s
a developmental sweet spot, and we were sitting there, blowing it. That was when I realized
that this sort of benign neglect was a real problem,
and it had real consequences, not just for Alex and her love life but for the careers
and the families and the futures of twentysomethings everywhere. There are 50 million twentysomethings
in the United States right now. We're talking about 15 percent
of the population, or 100 percent if you consider that no one's getting through adulthood
without going through their 20s first. (Laughter) Raise your hand if you're in your 20s. I really want to see
some twentysomethings here. Oh, yay! You are all awesome. If you work with twentysomethings,
you love a twentysomething, 