When someone mentions Cuba, what do you think about? Classic, classic cars? Perhaps good cigars? Maybe you think
of a famous baseball player. What about when somebody
mentions North Korea? You think about those missile tests, maybe their notorious leader or his good friend, Dennis Rodman. (Laughter) One thing that likely doesn't come to mind is a vision of a country, an open economy, whose citizens have access to a wide range
of affordable consumer products. I'm not here to argue how these countries
got to where they are today. I simply want to use them
as an example of countries and citizens who have been affected,
negatively affected, by a trade policy that restricts imports and protects local industries. Recently we've heard a number of countries talk about restricting imports and protecting their local,
domestic industries. Now, this may sound fine in a sound bite, but what it really is is protectionism. We heard a lot about this
during the 2016 presidential election. We heard about it
during the Brexit debates and most recently
during the French elections. In fact, it's been
a really important topic being talked about around the world, and many aspiring political leaders are running on platforms
positioning protectionism as a good thing. Now, I could see why they think
protectionism is good, because sometimes
it seems like trade is unfair. Some have blamed trade for some of the problems
we've been having here at home in the US. For years we've been hearing about the loss of high-paying
US manufacturing jobs. Many think that manufacturing
is declining in the US because companies are moving
their operations offshore to markets with lower-cost labor like China, Mexico and Vietnam. They also think trade agreements
sometimes are unfair, like NAFTA and the Trans-Pacific Partnership, because these trade agreements
allow companies to reimport those cheaply
produced goods back into the US and other countries
from where the jobs were taken. So it kind of feels like the exporters win and the importers lose. Now, the reality is output in the manufacturing
sector in the US is actually growing, but we are losing jobs. We're losing lots of them. In fact, from 2000 to 2010, 5.7 million manufacturing jobs were lost. But they're not being lost
for the reasons you might think. Mike Johnson in Toledo, Ohio didn't lose his jobs at the factory to Miguel Sanchez in Monterrey, Mexico. No. Mike lost his job to a machine. 87 percent of lost manufacturing jobs have been eliminated
because we've made improvements in our own productivity
through automation. So that means that one out of 10
lost manufacturing jobs was due to offshoring. Now, this is not just a US phenomenon. No. In fact, automation is spreading
to every production line in every country around the world. But look, I get it: if you just lost your job and then you read in the newspaper that your old company
just struck up a deal with China, it's easy to think you were just replaced in a one-for-one deal. When I hear stories like this,
I think that what people picture is that trade happens
between only two countries. Manufacturers in one country produce products and they export them to consumers in other countries, and it feels like
the manufacturing countries win and the importing countries lose. Well, reality's a little bit different. I'm a supply chain professional, and I live and work in Mexico. And I work in the middle of a highly connected network
of manufacturers all collaborating from around the world to produce many
of the products we use today. What I see from my front-row seat in Mexico City actually looks more like this. And this is a more accurate depiction
of what trade really looks like. I've had the pleasure of being able to see how many different products
are manufactured, from golf clubs to laptop computers to internet servers, automobiles and even airplanes. And believe me, none of it
happens in a straight line. Let me give you an example. A few months ago, I was touring
the manufacturing plant of a multinational aerospace company 