I would like to invite you to come along on a visit to a dark continent. It is the continent hidden under the surface of the earth. It is largely unexplored, poorly understood,
and the stuff of legends. But it is made also of dramatic landscapes like this huge underground chamber, and it is rich with surprising
biological and mineralogical worlds. Thanks to the efforts of intrepid voyagers
in the last three centuries -- actually, we know also thanks
to satellite technology, of course -- we know almost every single square meter
of our planet's surface. However, we know still very little
about what is hidden inside the earth. Because a cave landscape,
like this deep shaft in Italy, is hidden, the potential of cave exploration --
the geographical dimension -- is poorly understood and unappreciated. Because we are creatures
living on the surface, our perception of the inner
side of the planet is in some ways skewed, as is that of the depth of the oceans or of the upper atmosphere. However, since systematic cave exploration
started about one century ago, we know actually that caves exist
in every continent of the world. A single cave system,
like Mammoth Cave, which is in Kentucky, can be as long
as more than 600 kilometers. And an abyss like Krubera Voronya,
which is in the Caucasus region, actually the deepest cave
explored in the world, can go as far as more than 2,000
meters below the surface. That means a journey of weeks
for a cave explorer. Caves form in karstic regions. So karstic regions are areas of the world where the infiltrating water
along cracks, fractures, can easily dissolve soluble lithologies, forming a drainage system
of tunnels, conduits -- a three-dimensional network, actually. Karstic regions cover almost 20 percent
of the continents' surface, and we know actually that speleologists
in the last 50 years have explored roughly 30,000 kilometers
of cave passages around the world, which is a big number. But geologists have estimated
that what is still missing, to be discovered and mapped, is something around 10 million kilometers. That means that for each meter
of a cave that we already know, that we have explored, there are still some tens of kilometers
of undiscovered passages. That means that this is really
an endless continent, and we will never be able
to explore it completely. And this estimation is made
without considering other types of caves, like, for example, inside glaciers
or even volcanic caves, which are not karstic,
but are formed by lava flows. And if we have a look at other planets
like, for example, Mars, you will see that this characteristic is not so specific of our home planet. However, I will show to you now
that we do not need to go to Mars to explore alien worlds. I'm a speleologist, that means
a cave explorer. And I started with this passion
when I was really young in the mountains not far
from my hometown in North Italy, in the karstic regions of the Alps
and the Dolomites. But soon, the quest for exploration
brought me to the farthest corner of the planet, searching
for new potential entrances of this undiscovered continent. And in 2009, I had the opportunity
to visit the tepui table mountains, which are in the Orinoco
and Amazon basins. These massifs enchanted me
from the first time I saw them. They are surrounded by vertical,
vertiginous rock walls with silvery waterfalls
that are lost in the forest. They really inspired in me
a sense of wilderness, with a soul older than millions
and millions of years. And this dramatic landscape
inspired among other things also Conan Doyle's
"The Lost World" novel in 1912. And they are, really, a lost world. Scientists consider those mountains
as islands in time, being separated
from the surrounding lowlands since tens of millions of years ago. They are surrounded
by up to 1,000-meter-high walls, resembling a fortress,
impregnable by humans. And, in fact, only a few
of these mountains have been climbed and explored on their top. These mountains contain also
a scientific paradox: They are made by quartz, which is a very common mineral
on the earth's crust, and the rock made up by quartz
is called quartzite, and quartzite is one of the hardest
and least soluble minerals on earth. So we do not expect at all
to find a cave there. Despite this, in the last 10 years,
speleologists from Italy, Slovakia, Czech Republic,
and, of course, Venezuela and Brazil, have explored several caves in this area. So how can it be possible? To understand this contradiction,
we have to consider the time factor, because the history of the tepuis
is extremely long, starting about 1.6 billion years ago
with the formation of the rock, and then evolving with the uplift
of the region 150 million years ago, after the disruption
of the Pangaea supercontinent and the opening of the Atlantic Ocean. So you can imagine that the water had tens
or even hundreds of millions of years to sculpt the strangest forms
on the tepuis' surfaces, but also to open the fractures
and form stone cities, rock cities, fields of towers which are characterized
in the famous landscape of the tepuis. But nobody could have imagined what was happening inside a mountain
in so long a time frame. And so I was focusing in 2010
on one of those massifs, 