So, I lead a team at Google
that works on machine intelligence; in other words, the engineering discipline
of making computers and devices able to do some of the things
that brains do. And this makes us
interested in real brains and neuroscience as well, and especially interested
in the things that our brains do that are still far superior
to the performance of computers. Historically, one of those areas
has been perception, the process by which things
out there in the world -- sounds and images -- can turn into concepts in the mind. This is essential for our own brains, and it's also pretty useful on a computer. The machine perception algorithms,
for example, that our team makes, are what enable your pictures
on Google Photos to become searchable, based on what's in them. The flip side of perception is creativity: turning a concept into something
out there into the world. So over the past year,
our work on machine perception has also unexpectedly connected
with the world of machine creativity and machine art. I think Michelangelo
had a penetrating insight into to this dual relationship
between perception and creativity. This is a famous quote of his: "Every block of stone
has a statue inside of it, and the job of the sculptor
is to discover it." So I think that what
Michelangelo was getting at is that we create by perceiving, and that perception itself
is an act of imagination and is the stuff of creativity. The organ that does all the thinking
and perceiving and imagining, of course, is the brain. And I'd like to begin
with a brief bit of history about what we know about brains. Because unlike, say,
the heart or the intestines, you really can't say very much
about a brain by just looking at it, at least with the naked eye. The early anatomists who looked at brains gave the superficial structures
of this thing all kinds of fanciful names, like hippocampus, meaning "little shrimp." But of course that sort of thing
doesn't tell us very much about what's actually going on inside. The first person who, I think, really
developed some kind of insight into what was going on in the brain 