Seven years ago, a student came to me
and asked me to invest in his company. He said, "I'm working with three friends, and we're going to try to disrupt
an industry by selling stuff online." And I said, "OK, you guys spent
the whole summer on this, right?" "No, we all took internships
just in case it doesn't work out." "All right, but you're going to
go in full time once you graduate." "Not exactly. We've all
lined up backup jobs." Six months go by, it's the day before the company launches, and there is still
not a functioning website. "You guys realize,
the entire company is a website. That's literally all it is." So I obviously declined to invest. And they ended up
naming the company Warby Parker. (Laughter) They sell glasses online. They were recently recognized
as the world's most innovative company and valued at over a billion dollars. And now? My wife handles our investments. Why was I so wrong? To find out, I've been studying people
that I come to call "originals." Originals are nonconformists, people who not only have new ideas but take action to champion them. They are people
who stand out and speak up. Originals drive creativity
and change in the world. They're the people you want to bet on. And they look nothing like I expected. I want to show you today
three things I've learned about recognizing originals and becoming a little bit more like them. So the first reason
that I passed on Warby Parker was they were really slow
getting off the ground. Now, you are all intimately familiar
with the mind of a procrastinator. Well, I have a confession for you.
I'm the opposite. I'm a precrastinator. Yes, that's an actual term. You know that panic you feel
a few hours before a big deadline when you haven't done anything yet. I just feel that
a few months ahead of time. (Laughter) So this started early: when I was a kid,
I took Nintendo games very seriously. I would wake up at 5am, start playing and not stop
until I had mastered them. Eventually it got so out of hand
that a local newspaper came and did a story on the dark side
of Nintendo, starring me. (Laughter) (Applause) Since then, I have traded hair for teeth. (Laughter) But this served me well in college, because I finished my senior thesis
four months before the deadline. And I was proud of that,
until a few years ago. I had a student named Jihae,
who came to me and said, "I have my most creative ideas
when I'm procrastinating." And I was like, "That's cute,
where are the four papers you owe me?" (Laughter) No, she was one
of our most creative students, and as an organizational psychologist,
this is the kind of idea that I test. So I challenged her to get some data. She goes into a bunch of companies. She has people fill out surveys
about how often they procrastinate. Then she gets their bosses to rate
how creative and innovative they are. And sure enough,
the precrastinators like me, who rush in and do everything early are rated as less creative than people who procrastinate moderately. So I want to know what happens
to the chronic procrastinators. She was like, "I don't know.
They didn't fill out my survey." (Laughter) No, here are our results. You actually do see that the people
who wait until the last minute are so busy goofing off
that they don't have any new ideas. And on the flip side,
the people who race in are in such a frenzy of anxiety that they
don't have original thoughts either. There's a sweet spot
where originals seem to live. Why is this? Maybe original people
just have bad work habits. Maybe procrastinating
does not cause creativity. To find out, we designed some experiments. We asked people
to generate new business ideas, and then we get independent readers to evaluate how creative
and useful they are. And some of them are asked
to do the task right away. Others we randomly assign
to procrastinate by dangling Minesweeper in front of them for either five or 10 minutes. And sure enough,
the moderate procrastinators are 16 percent more creative
than the other two groups. Now, Minesweeper is awesome,
but it's not the driver of the effect, because if you play the game first
before you learn about the task, there's no creativity boost. It's only when you're told that you're
going to be working on this problem, and then you start procrastinating, but the task is still active
in the back of your mind, that you start to incubate. Procrastination gives you time
to consider divergent ideas, to think in nonlinear ways,
to make unexpected leaps. So just as we were finishing
these experiments, I was starting to write
a book about originals, and I thought, "This is the perfect time
to teach myself to procrastinate, while writing a chapter
on procrastination." So I metaprocrastinated, and like any self-respecting
precrastinator, I woke up early the next morning and I made a to-do list
with steps on how to procrastinate. (Laughter) And then I worked diligently toward my goal of not making
progress toward my goal. I started writing
the procrastination chapter, and one day -- I was halfway through -- I literally put it away in mid-sentence for months. It was agony. But when I came back to it,
I had all sorts of new ideas. As Aaron Sorkin put it, "You call it procrastinating.
I call it thinking." And along the way I discovered that a lot of great originals
in history were procrastinators. Take Leonardo da Vinci. He toiled on and off for 16 years on the Mona Lisa. He felt like a failure. He wrote as much in his journal. But some of the diversions
he took in optics transformed the way that he modeled light and made him into a much better painter. What about Martin Luther King, Jr.? The night before
the biggest speech of his life, the March on Washington, he was up past 3am, rewriting it. He's sitting in the audience
waiting for his turn to go onstage, and he is still scribbling notes
and crossing out lines. When he gets onstage, 11 minutes in, he leaves his prepared remarks to utter four words
that changed the course of history: "I have a dream." That was not in the script. By delaying the task of finalizing
the speech until the very last minute, he left himself open
to the widest range of possible ideas. And because the text wasn't set in stone, he had freedom to improvise. Procrastinating is a vice
when it comes to productivity, but it can be a virtue for creativity. What you see with a lot of great originals is that they are quick to start
but they're slow to finish. And this is what I missed
with Warby Parker. When they were dragging
their heels for six months, I looked at them and said, "You know, a lot of other companies
are starting to sell glasses online." They missed the first-mover advantage. But what I didn't realize was
they were spending all that time trying to figure out how to get people to be comfortable ordering glasses online. And it turns out the first-mover
advantage is mostly a myth. Look at a classic study
of over 50 product categories, comparing the first movers
who created the market with the improvers who introduced
something different and better. What you see is that the first movers
had a failure rate of 47 percent, compared with only 8 percent
for the improvers. Look at Facebook,
waiting to build a social network until after Myspace and Friendster. Look at Google, waiting for years
after Altavista and Yahoo. It's much easier to improve
on somebody else's idea than it is to create
something new from scratch. So the lesson I learned is that
to be original you don't have to be first. You just have to be different and better. But that wasn't the only reason
I passed on Warby Parker. They were also full of doubts. They had backup plans lined up, and that made me doubt
that they had the courage to be original, because I expected that originals
would look something like this. (Laughter) Now, on the surface, a lot of original people look confident, but behind the scenes, they feel the same fear and doubt
that the rest of us do. They just manage it differently. Let me show you: this is a depiction of how the creative process
works for most of us. (Laughter) Now, in my research, I discovered
there are two different kinds of doubt. There's self-doubt and idea doubt. Self-doubt is paralyzing. It leads you to freeze. But idea doubt is energizing. It motivates you to test,
to experiment, to refine, just like MLK did. And so the key to being original is just a simple thing of avoiding the leap
from step three to step four. Instead of saying, "I'm crap," you say, "The first few drafts
are always crap, and I'm just not there yet." So how do you get there? Well, there's a clue, it turns out, in the Internet browser that you use. We can predict your job performance
and your commitment just by knowing what web browser you use. Now, some of you are not
going to like the results of this study -- (Laughter) But there is good evidence
that Firefox and Chrome users significantly outperform
Internet Explorer and Safari users. Yes. (Applause) They also stay in their jobs
15 percent longer, by the way. Why? It's not a technical advantage. The four browser groups
on average have similar typing speed and they also have similar levels
of computer knowledge. It's about how you got the browser. Because if you use
Internet Explorer or Safari, those came preinstalled on your computer, and you accepted the default option
that was handed to you. If you wanted Firefox or Chrome,
you had to doubt the default and ask, is there
a different option out there, and then be a little resourceful
and download a new browser. So people hear about this study
and they're like, "Great, if I want to get better at my job,
I just need to upgrade my browser?" (Laughter) No, it's about being the kind of person who takes the initiative
to doubt the default and look for a better option. And if you do that well, 