Good morning, everyone. When I was first asked to do a TED Talk, I Googled to try and find out
a little bit more about, you know, how it felt to be giving one. And one of the first things I read
was a speaker in the States saying that she felt fine
until she came onstage, and then she saw the timer ticking down. (Laughter) And it reminded her of a bomb. I was thinking,
"That's the last thing I need." (Laughter) (Applause) Anyway, it's a great privilege to be here. I think it's a bit of a joke for an editor of a paper to choose
a photographer to open a speaking event. (Laughter) We're not renowned for our words, and I spent the last 40 years
hiding behind a camera so I didn't have to speak. But I'm here today, and what I want
to talk about are stories and the importance of stories to me and, I think, the importance
of stories to everybody. I'm sure today you'll hear
a lot of stories and, by listening to other
people's stories, I think we can learn
about the world, about other people and get a better understanding. So I want to talk about three stories
that I've done as a photographer, and how they've inspired me, and how, in my life, I've become
a part of the stories that I document myself. As John said, I was a fashion photographer and music photographer for 10 years. I enjoyed it, I had a lot of fun, but always wanted to do
something more with my work. And storytelling was always
something I wanted to do. So 10 years ago, I set out
to travel the world, to go and photograph
other people in their situations and to record their stories,
to bring them back, so that other people might understand. But this didn't happen overnight. When I worked as a music photographer
and a fashion photographer, I always had this nagging feeling
that there was something missing, that I wasn't quite
using my skills productively. And it may seem
very obvious, the link, now, but at the time,
I couldn't really work out how could I use my photography
to do something useful. So I gave up photography. I walked away from it completely
and decided to do care work. As a care worker, I started looking
after a young guy called Nick. Nick has autism, very severe autism. But over the years of looking after him,
we became very close friends. I would give him a 24-hour care, we would go off and do things
from swimming, going for walks ... all sorts. Bit by bit, though,
as I got to know him better, I realized that his story
wasn't being told. He self-harmed, he would punch himself
quite a lot in the face. And nobody really got to see that. So this is Nick. He used to describe his life
as living downstairs at a party. He said he could hear
the party in the kitchen, but he felt like he was always
trapped in the basement, in his own little world, wanting to be part of the party
but not able to walk upstairs. So I documented his life. I started to photograph it, not really with any intention
of doing anything with the pictures, but just as a way of recording. And as I started doing that, I realized
that I could tell somebody's story through my photographs. As I said, Nick would self-harm. He would punch himself in the face. And nobody really got to see that. As we built up a kind
of closer friendship, he finally would allow me
to actually see him doing this and to document it. It was a moment of trust. The social services were not
particularly good at helping Nick, and they said that he wouldn't be
self-harming as bad as we said. So one day, I took a photograph
of when he'd really been self-harming. We took that to the social services, and their reaction was immediately
incredibly different, and they managed to get a lot of help. And I'm glad to say now,
eight years later, I actually spoke to Nick last night, and he wanted to let me know
that he was feeling a lot better, and he doesn't do
the self-harming anymore. And in some small way,
I hope that the photographs was a part of that process. The main thing it did is it inspired
me to go out with my camera and to tell other people's stories. One of the stories I did
was in Kutupalong, on the border of Burma and Bangladesh. Here, the Rohingyas refugees
have been left, pretty much to rot, for over 20 years. This is a picture of the unofficial camp. At the top, you can see
the official UN camp. All these huts are the unofficial camps. Literally, the raw sewage
runs through the camp. The people there have been forgotten, so I thought it was important to go
and document their stories. So I arranged with the village elder; the people would come along the next day, and I would take portraits
of all these people and record their stories. So as the time went on,
I turned up in the morning, I put a big, white sheet up,
and I started to photograph these people. Suddenly, though, everything
got a bit out of control, and, although it was still dawn, we were filled in this small
little compound we had made with literally hundreds of people
turning up with ailments and diseases and just ... a hopeless situation. And that's exactly
what their situation is -- helpless. A child with a tumor that nobody helped,
who was slowly suffocating. I got in a bit of a panic, because these people were
coming up to me, desperate, and I was trying to explain
to the village elder that I was not a doctor,
and I couldn't help these people. And the village elder
turned to me and he said, "No, it's really important;
these people know you're not a doctor, but at least somebody
is now telling their story, and somebody is recording
what is happening to them." And it was a good moment for me. It was a realization
that maybe it was worthwhile going off and doing these things. Another story that inspired me
was in Odessa, in Ukraine. I was documenting a bunch of street kids. I ended up actually living
with them in a squat, which I can say was an experience. Many late nights of vodka-fueled violence with me sitting in the corner with my bag, just going, "When was this a good idea?" (Laughter) I would say it's moments
like that when I think, "Why did I leave the fashion world?" But they were great kids, and on the last day,
they took me down to the sea for a sort of trip, a sort of farewell. There they are, drinking vodka. And then Serge, who was the oldest
and the most violent -- he'd just got out of the prison
for stabbing somebody -- comes and puts his arm around me
and says, "We go swimming." Now, I have to say, I had
a "Lonely Planet" guide to Ukraine and in it, it gave some advice. And in that advice was,
"Do not talk to the street kids, at no point leave your baggage unattended and in all counts, do not go swimming." (Laughter) So I was like, "I don't know
if this is a good idea." Serge has got his arm around me. I'm like, "OK." So there I am. (Laughter) I literally handed all my cameras,
all my equipment, to these street kids. And they took it. It's kind of funny to know,
if you look in the background, you can see the other street kids
who didn't get in the water go, "Why would you get in that water?" But one of the little kids, Lilic, he was the one who had taken my camera, and he started taking photographs. He was really excited by this camera. And we talked a lot about
how I was going to get him a camera and would return and we could start
to teach him photography. He had a real eye for things. That's him, there. That was taken on the last
evening I was there. I'd been staying there, but that night,
I left to go and collect my things. And when I came back
in the morning, he was dead. He had taken a lot of pills
and a lot of vodka. 