My journey to become a polar specialist, photographing, specializing
in the polar regions, began when I was four years old, when my family moved from southern Canada to Northern Baffin Island,
up by Greenland. There we lived with the Inuit in the tiny Inuit community
of 200 Inuit people, where [we] were one
of three non-Inuit families. And in this community,
we didn't have a television; we didn't have computers,
obviously, radio. We didn't even have a telephone. All of my time was spent outside with the Inuit, playing. The snow and the ice were my sandbox, and the Inuit were my teachers. And that's where I became truly obsessed with this polar realm. And I knew someday that
I was going to do something that had to do with trying
to share news about it and protect it. I'd like to share with you,
for just two minutes only, some images, a cross-section of my work, to the beautiful music
by Brandi Carlile, "Have You Ever." I don't know why National Geographic
has done this, they've never done this before, but they're allowing me
to show you a few images from a coverage that I've just completed
that is not published yet. National Geographic doesn't do this, so I'm very excited to be able
to share this with you. And what these images are -- you'll see them at the start of the slide show --
there's only about four images -- but it's of a little bear
that lives in the Great Bear Rainforest. It's pure white,
but it's not a polar bear. It's a spirit bear,
or a Kermode bear. There are only 200 of these bears left. They're more rare than the panda bear. I sat there on the river
for two months without seeing one. I thought, my career's over. I proposed this stupid story
to National Geographic. What in the heck was I thinking? So I had two months to sit there and figure out different ways
of what I was going to do in my next life, after I was a photographer,
because they were going to fire me. Because National Geographic is a magazine;
they remind us all the time: they publish pictures, not excuses. (Laughter) And after two months of sitting there -- one day, thinking that it was all over, this incredible big white male came down, right beside me, three feet away from me, and he went down and grabbed a fish
and went off in the forest and ate it. And then I spent the entire day
living my childhood dream of walking around with this bear
through the forest. He went through this old-growth forest and sat up beside this 400-year-old
culturally modified tree and went to sleep. And I actually got to sleep
within three feet of him, just in the forest, and photograph him. So I'm very excited to be able
to show you those images and a cross-section of my work
that I've done on the polar regions. Please enjoy. (Music) 