(Music) (Music) (Music ends) (Applause) So, that's what I've done with my life. (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) As a kid, I grew up on a farm in Florida, and I did what most little kids do. I played a little baseball,
did a few other things like that, but I always had the sense
of being an outsider, and it wasn't until I saw
pictures in the magazines that a couple other guys skate, I thought, "Wow, that's for me," you know? Because there was no coach
standing directly over you, and these guys,
they were just being themselves. There was no opponent
directly across from you. And I loved that sense,
so I started skating when I was about 10 years old, in 1977, and when I did,
I picked it up pretty quickly. In fact, here's some footage
from about 1984. It wasn't until 79
I won my first amateur championship, and then, by 81, I was 14,
and I won my first world championship, which was amazing to me, and in a very real sense,
that was the first real victory I had. Oh, watch this. This is a Casper slide,
where the board's upside down. Mental note on that one. (Laughter) And this one here? An ollie. So, as she mentioned,
that is overstated for sure, but that's why they called me
the godfather of modern street skating. Here's some images of that. Now, I was about halfway
through my pro career in, I would say, the mid-'80s. Freestyle itself -- we developed
all these flat ground tricks, as you saw, but there was evolving
a new kind of skateboarding, where guys were taking it to the streets,
and they were using that ollie, like I showed you. They were using it to get up
onto stuff like bleachers and handrails and over stairwells
and all kinds of cool stuff. So it was evolving upwards. In fact, when someone tells you
they're a skater today, they pretty much mean a street skater, because freestyle, it took about
five years for it to die, and at that stage, I'd been a "champion"
champion for 11 years, which -- Phew! And suddenly, it was over for me,
that's it -- it was gone. They took my pro model off the shelf, which was essentially
pronouncing you dead, publicly. That's how you make your money, you know? You have a signature board
and wheels and shoes and clothes. I had all that stuff, and it's gone. The crazy thing was, there was
a really liberating sense about it, because I no longer had to protect
my record as a champion. "Champion," again. Champion sounds so goofy,
but it's what it was, right? What drew me to
skateboarding, the freedom, was now restored,
where I could just create things, because that's where the joy
was for me, always, was creating new stuff. The other thing that I had
was a deep well of tricks to draw from that were rooted
in these flat ground tricks. Stuff the normal guys were doing
was very much different. 