On January 4, 1934, a young man delivered a report to the United States Congress that 80 years on, still shapes the lives of
everyone in this room today, still shapes the lives of
everyone on this planet. That young man wasn't a politician, he wasn't a businessman, a civil rights activist or a faith leader. He was that most unlikely of heroes, an economist. His name was Simon Kuznets and the report that 
he delivered was called "National Income, 1929-1932." Now, you might think this is a rather dry and dull report. And you're absolutely right. It's dry as a bone. But this report is the foundation of how, today, we judge the 
success of countries: what we know best as
Gross Domestic Product, GDP. GDP has defined and shaped our lives for the last 80 years. And today I want to talk about 
 a different way to measure
the success of countries, a different way to define 
and shape our lives for the next 80 years. But first, we have to understand how GDP came to
dominate our lives. Kuznets' report was delivered at a moment of crisis. The U.S. economy was plummeting into the Great Depression and policy makers were 
struggling to respond. Struggling because they didn't
know what was going on. They didn't have data and statistics. So what Kuznet's report gave them was reliable data on what 
the U.S. economy was producing, updated year by year. And armed with this information, policy makers were, eventually, able to find a way out 
of the slump. And because Kuznets' invention was found to be so useful, it spread around the world. And now today, every country produces GDP statistics. But, in that first report, Kuznets himself delivered a warning. It's in the introductory chapter. On page seven he says, "The welfare of a nation can, therefore, scarcely be inferred from a measurement of 
national income as defined above." It's not the greatest sound 
bite in the world, and it's dressed up in the cautious 
language of the economist. But his message was clear: GDP is a tool to help us measure
economic performance. It's not a measure
of our well-being. And it shouldn't be a guide 
to all decision making. But we have ignored Kuznets' warning. We live in a world where GDP is the benchmark of success in a global economy. Our politicians boast when
GDP goes up. Markets move and trillions of dollars of capital move around the world based on which countries
are going up and which countries 
are going down, all measured in GDP. Our societies have become engines to create more GDP. But we know that GDP is flawed. It ignores the environment. It counts bombs and prisons as progress. It can't count happiness or community. And it has nothing to say 
about fairness or justice. Is it any surprise that our world, marching to the drumbeat of GDP, is teetering on the brink
of environmental disaster and filled with anger and conflict? We need a better way
to measure our societies, a measure based on the real 
things that matter to real people. Do I have enough to eat? Can I read and write? Am I safe? Do I have rights? Do I live in a society where
I'm not discriminated against? Is my future and the future of my children 
prevented from environmental destruction? These are questions that GDP does not and cannot answer. There have, of course, been efforts in the past to move beyond GDP. But I believe that we're living in a moment when we are ready for a measurement revolution. We're ready because we've seen, in the financial crisis of 2008, how our fetish for economic growth led us so far astray. We've seen, in the Arab Spring, how countries like Tunisia were supposedly economic superstars, but they were societies that were seething with discontentment. We're ready, because today
we have the technology to gather and analyze data in ways that would have been
unimaginable to Kuznets. Today, I'd like to introduce you 
to the Social Progress Index. It's a measure of the 
well-being of society, completely separate from GDP. It's a whole new way
of looking at the world. The Social Progress Index begins by defining what it means to be a good society based around three dimensions. The first is, does everyone have
the basic needs for survival: food, water, shelter, safety? Secondly, does everyone have access to the building blocks 
to improve their lives: education, information, health
and sustainable environment? And then third, does every 
individual have access to a chance to pursue their goals and dreams and ambitions free from obstacles? Do they have rights, freedom of choice, freedom from discrimination and access to the the world's
most advanced knowledge? Together, these 12 components form the Social Progress framework. And for each of these 12 components, we have indicators to measure 
how countries are performing. Not indicators of effort or intention, but real achievement. We don't measure how much
a country spends on healthcare, we measure the length and 
quality of people's lives. We don't measure whether governments
pass laws against discrimination, we measure whether people 
experience discrimination. But what you want to know is who's top, don't you?
(Laughter) I knew that, I knew that, I knew that. Okay, I'm going to show you. I'm going to show you on this chart. So here we are, what I've done here is put on the 
vertical axis social progress. Higher is better. And then, just for comparison, just for fun, on the horizontal axis
is GDP per capita. Further to the right is more. So the country in the world with the highest social progress, the number one country on social progress is New Zealand. (Applause) Well done! Never been; must go. (Laughter) The country with the least social progress, I'm sorry to say, is Chad. I've never been; maybe next year. (Laughter) Or maybe the year after. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking, "Aha, but New Zealand has a higher GDP than Chad!" It's a good point, well made. But let me show you two other countries. 