Imagine you're in a bar, or a club, and you start talking, and after a while,
the question comes up, "So, what do you do for work?" And since you think
your job is interesting, you say, "I'm a mathematician."
(Laughter) And inevitably, during that conversation one of these two phrases come up: A) "I was terrible at math,
but it wasn't my fault. It's because the teacher
was awful." (Laughter) Or B) "But what is math really for?" (Laughter) I'll now address Case B. (Laughter) When someone asks you what math is for,
they're not asking you about applications
of mathematical science. They're asking you, why did I have to study that bullshit
I never used in my life again? (Laughter) That's what they're actually asking. So when mathematicians are asked
what math is for, they tend to fall into two groups: 54.51 percent of mathematicians
will assume an attacking position, and 44.77 percent of mathematicians
will take a defensive position. There's a strange 0.8 percent,
among which I include myself. Who are the ones that attack? The attacking ones are mathematicians
who would tell you this question makes no sense, because mathematics
have a meaning all their own -- a beautiful edifice with its own logic -- and that there's no point in constantly searching
for all possible applications. What's the use of poetry?
What's the use of love? What's the use of life itself? 
What kind of question is that? (Laughter) Hardy, for instance, was a model
of this type of attack. And those who stand in defense tell you, "Even if you don't realize it, friend,
math is behind everything." (Laughter) Those guys, they always bring up
bridges and computers. "If you don't know math,
your bridge will collapse." (Laughter) It's true, computers are all about math. And now these guys
have also started saying that behind information security
and credit cards are prime numbers. These are the answers your math teacher
would give you if you asked him. He's one of the defensive ones. Okay, but who's right then? Those who say that math
doesn't need to have a purpose, or those who say that math
is behind everything we do? Actually, both are right. But remember I told you I belong to that strange 0.8 percent
claiming something else? So, go ahead, ask me what math is for. Audience: What is math for? 