So, there's an actor
called Dustin Hoffman. And years ago, he made this movie
which some of you may have heard of, called "The Graduate." And there's two key scenes in that movie. The first one is the seduction scene. I'm not going to talk about that tonight. (Laughter) The second scene is where he's taken out
by the old guy to the pool, and as a young college graduate,
the old guy basically says one word, just one word. And of course, all of you know
what that word is. It's "plastics." (Laughter) And the only problem with that is,
it was completely the wrong advice. (Laughter) Let me tell you why it was so wrong. The word should have been "silicon." And the reason it should have been silicon is because the basic patents
for semiconductors had already been made, had already been filed, and they were already building them. So Silicon Valley was just
being built in 1967, when this movie was released. And the year after the movie was released, Intel was founded. So had the graduate heard
the right one word, maybe he would have ended up
onstage -- oh, I don't know -- maybe with these two. (Laughter) So as you're thinking of that, let's see what bit of advice
we might want to give so that your next graduate doesn't become
a Tupperware salesman. (Laughter) So in 2015, what word of advice
would you give people, when you took a college
graduate out by the pool and you said one word, just one word? I think the answer would be "lifecode." So what is "lifecode?" Lifecode is the various ways
we have of programming life. So instead of programming computers, we're using things to program viruses or retroviruses or proteins or DNA or RNA or plants or animals,
or a whole series of creatures. And as you're thinking
about this incredible ability to make life do what you want it to do, what it's programmed to do, what you end up doing is taking what we've been doing
for thousands of years, which is breeding, changing, mixing, matching all kinds of life-forms, and we accelerate it. And this is not something new. This humble mustard weed has been modified so that if you change it in one way,
you get broccoli. And if you change it
in a second way, you get kale. And if you change it in a third way, you get cauliflower. So when you go to these
all-natural, organic markets, you're really going to a place where people have been changing
the lifecode of plants for a long time. The difference today, to pick a completely
politically neutral term -- [Intelligent design] (Laughter) We're beginning to practice
intelligent design. That means that instead
of doing this at random and seeing what happens over generations, we're inserting specific genes,
we're inserting specific proteins, and we're changing lifecode
for very deliberate purposes. And that allows us to accelerate
how this stuff happens. Let me just give you one example. Some of you occasionally
might think about sex. And we kind of take it for granted
how we've changed sex. So we think it's perfectly normal
and natural to change it. What's happened with sex over time is -- normally, sex equals baby, eventually. But in today's world, sex plus pill equals no baby. (Laughter) And again, we think
that's perfectly normal and natural, but that has not been the case
for most of human history. And it's not the case for animals. What it is does is it gives us control, so sex becomes separate from conception. And as you're thinking
of the consequences of that, then we've been playing with stuff that's a little bit more
advanced, like art. Not in the sense
of painting and sculpture, but in the sense of assisted
reproductive technologies. So what are assisted
reproductive technologies? Assisted reproductive technologies
are things like in vitro fertilization. And when you do in vitro fertilization,
there's very good reasons to do it. Sometimes you just
can't conceive otherwise. But when you do that, 