Two years ago, I have to say there was no problem. Two years ago, I knew exactly 
what an icon looked like. It looks like this. Everybody's icon, but also the default position of a curator of Italian Renaissance 
paintings, which I was then. And in a way, this is also another default selection. Leonardo da Vinci's exquisitely soulful image of the "Lady with an Ermine." And I use that word, soulful, deliberately. Or then there's this, or rather these: the two versions of Leonardo's "Virgin of the Rocks" that were about to come together 
in London for the very first time. In the exhibition that I was then in 
the absolute throes of organizing. I was literally up to my eyes in Leonardo, and I had been for three years. So, he was occupying every part of my brain. Leonardo had taught me, during that three years, about what a picture can do. About taking you from your own 
material world into a spiritual world. He said, actually, that he believed 
the job of the painter was to paint everything that was visible 
and invisible in the universe. That's a huge task. And yet, 
somehow he achieves it. He shows us, I think, the human soul. He shows us the capacity of ourselves to move into a spiritual realm. To see a vision of the universe that's 
more perfect than our own. To see God's own plan, in some sense. So this, in a sense, was really 
what I believed an icon was. At about that time, I started talking to Tom Campbell, director here of the Metropolitan Museum, about what my next move might be. The move, in fact, back to an earlier life, one I'd begun at the British Museum, back to the world of three dimensions -- of sculpture and of decorative arts -- to take over the department of European sculpture 
and decorative arts, here at the Met. But it was an incredibly busy time. All the conversations were done 
at very peculiar times of the day -- over the phone. In the end, I accepted the job without actually having been here. Again, I'd been there a couple of years before, but on that particular visit. So, it was just before the time that 
the Leonardo show was due to open when I finally made it back to the Met, to New York, to see my new domain. To see what European sculpture 
and decorative arts looked like, beyond those Renaissance collections 
with which I was so already familiar. And I thought, on that very first day, 
I better tour the galleries. Fifty-seven of these galleries -- like 57 varieties of baked beans, I believe. I walked through and I started in my comfort zone
in the Italian Renaissance. And then I moved gradually around, feeling a little lost sometimes. My head, also still full of the Leonardo exhibition that was about to open, and I came across this. And I thought to myself: What the hell have I done? There was absolutely no connection in my mind at all and, in fact, if there was any emotion going on, it was a kind of repulsion. This object felt utterly and completely alien. Silly at a level that I hadn't yet 
understood silliness to be. And then it was made worse -- there were two of them. (Laughter) So, I started thinking about why it was, in fact, that I disliked this object so much. What was the anatomy of my distaste? Well, so much gold, so vulgar. You know, so nouveau riche, frankly. Leonardo himself had preached 
against the use of gold, so it was absolutely anathema at that moment. And then there's little pretty sprigs 
of flowers everywhere. (Laughter) And finally, that pink. That damned pink. It's such an extraordinarily artificial color. I mean, it's a color that I can't think of 
anything that you actually see in nature, that looks that shade. The object even has its own tutu. (Laughter) This little flouncy, spangly, bottomy bit that sits at the bottom of the vase. It reminded me, in an odd kind of way, of my niece's fifth birthday party. Where all the little girls would come 
either as a princess or a fairy. There was one who would come as a fairy princess. You should have seen the looks. (Laughter) And I realize that this object was in my mind, born from the same mind, from the same womb, practically, as Barbie Ballerina. (Laughter) And then there's the elephants. (Laughter) Those extraordinary elephants with their little, sort of strange, sinister expressions and Greta Garbo eyelashes, with 
these golden tusks and so on. I realized this was an elephant that had absolutely nothing to do with a majestic 
march across the Serengeti. It was a Dumbo nightmare. (Laughter) But something more profound 
was happening as well. These objects, it seemed to me, were quintessentially the kind that I 
and my liberal left friends in London had always seen as summing up something deplorable about the French aristocracy in the 18th century. The label had told me that these pieces were made 