I love paper, and I love technology, and what I do is I make paper interactive. And that's what I say when
people ask me what I do, but it really confuses most people, so really, the best way
for me to convey it is to take the technology and be creative and create experiences. So I tried to think
what I could use for here, and a couple of weeks
ago I had a crazy idea that I wanted to print two DJ decks and to try and mix some music. And I'm going to try
and show that at the end, and the suspense will be
as much mine if it works. And I'm not a DJ, and I'm not a musician, so I'm a little bit scared of that. So I think, I found the best
way to describe my journey is just to mention a few little things that have happened to me
throughout my life. There's three particular
things that I've done, and I'll just describe those first, and then talk about some of my work. So when I was a kid,
I was obsessed with wires, and I used to thread them under my carpet and thread them behind the walls and have little switches
and little speakers, and I wanted to make
my bedroom be interactive but kind of all hidden away. And I was also really
interested in wireless as well. So I bought one of those
little kits that you could get to make a radio transmitter, and I got an old book
and I carved out the inside and I hid it inside there, and then I placed it next to my dad and snuck back to my bedroom
and tuned in on the radio so I could eavesdrop. I was not at all interested
in what he was saying. It's more that I just liked the idea of an everyday object having something inside and doing something different. Several year later, I managed to successfully
fail all of my exams and didn't really leave school
with much to show for at all, and my parents, maybe as a reward, bought me what turned out to be a one-way ticket to Australia, and I came back home
about four years later. I ended up on a farm
in the middle of nowhere. It was in far western New South Wales. And this farm was 120,000 acres. There were 22,000 sheep, and it was about 40 degrees, or 100 or so Fahrenheit. And on this farm there
was the farmer, his wife, and there was the four-year-old daughter. And they kind of took me into the farm and showed me what it
was like to live and work. Obviously, one of the most important
things was the sheep, and so my job was, well,
pretty much to do everything, but it was about bringing
the sheep back to the homestead. And we'd do that by building fences, using motorbikes and horses, and the sheep would make
their way all the way back to the shearing shed
for the different seasons. And what I learned was, although at the time, like everyone else, I thought sheep were pretty stupid because they didn't do
what we wanted them to do, what I realize now, probably
only just in the last few weeks looking back, is the sheep
weren't stupid at all. We'd put them in an environment
where they didn't want to be, and they didn't want to do
what we wanted them to do. So the challenge was to try and get them to do what we wanted them to do by listening to the weather,
the lay of the land, and creating things
that would let the sheep flow and go where we wanted them to go. Another bunch of years later, I ended up at Cambridge University at the Cavendish Laboratory in the U.K. doing a Ph.D. in physics. My Ph.D. was to move electrons
around, one at a time. 