Late in January 1975, a 17-year-old German girl
called Vera Brandes walked out onto the stage
of the Cologne Opera House. The auditorium was empty. It was lit only by the dim, green glow
of the emergency exit sign. This was the most
exciting day of Vera's life. She was the youngest
concert promoter in Germany, and she had persuaded
the Cologne Opera House to host a late-night concert of jazz from the American musician, Keith Jarrett. 1,400 people were coming. And in just a few hours, Jarrett would walk out on the same stage, he'd sit down at the piano and without rehearsal or sheet music, he would begin to play. But right now, Vera was introducing Keith
to the piano in question, and it wasn't going well. Jarrett looked to the instrument
a little warily, played a few notes, walked around it, played a few more notes, muttered something to his producer. Then the producer
came over to Vera and said ... "If you don't get a new piano,
Keith can't play." There'd been a mistake. The opera house had provided
the wrong instrument. This one had this harsh,
tinny upper register, because all the felt had worn away. The black notes were sticking, the white notes were out of tune, the pedals didn't work and the piano itself was just too small. It wouldn't create the volume that would fill a large space
such as the Cologne Opera House. So Keith Jarrett left. He went and sat outside in his car, leaving Vera Brandes to get on the phone
to try to find a replacement piano. Now she got a piano tuner, but she couldn't get a new piano. And so she went outside and she stood there in the rain, talking to Keith Jarrett, begging him not to cancel the concert. And he looked out of his car at this bedraggled,
rain-drenched German teenager, took pity on her, and said, "Never forget ... only for you." And so a few hours later, Jarrett did indeed step out
onto the stage of the opera house, he sat down at the unplayable piano and began. (Music) Within moments it became clear
that something magical was happening. Jarrett was avoiding
those upper registers, he was sticking to the middle
tones of the keyboard, which gave the piece
a soothing, ambient quality. But also, because the piano was so quiet, he had to set up these rumbling,
repetitive riffs in the bass. And he stood up twisting,
pounding down on the keys, desperately trying to create enough volume
to reach the people in the back row. It's an electrifying performance. It somehow has this peaceful quality, and at the same time it's full of energy, it's dynamic. And the audience loved it. Audiences continue to love it 