My job is to design, build and study
robots that communicate with people. But this story doesn't start with robotics
at all, it starts with animation. When I first saw Pixar's "Luxo Jr.," I was amazed by how much
emotion they could put into something as trivial as a desk lamp. I mean, look at them --
at the end of this movie, you actually feel something
for two pieces of furniture. (Laughter) And I said, I have
to learn how to do this. So I made a really bad career decision. (Laughter) And that's what my mom
was like when I did it. (Laughter) I left a very cozy tech job in Israel
at a nice software company and I moved to New York
to study animation. And there I lived in a collapsing apartment building
in Harlem with roommates. I'm not using this phrase
metaphorically -- the ceiling actually collapsed
one day in our living room. Whenever they did news stories
about building violations in New York, they would put the report
in front of our building, as kind of, like, a backdrop
to show how bad things are. Anyway, during the day, I went to school and at night I would sit and draw
frame by frame of pencil animation. And I learned two surprising lessons. One of them was that
when you want to arouse emotions, it doesn't matter so much
how something looks; it's all in the motion, in the timing
of how the thing moves. And the second was something
one of our teachers told us. He actually did the weasel in "Ice Age." And he said, "As an animator,
you're not a director -- you're an actor." So, if you want to find
the right motion for a character, don't think about it --
go use your body to find it. Stand in front of a mirror,
act it out in front of a camera -- whatever you need -- and then
put it back in your character. A year later I found myself at MIT
in the Robotic Life Group. It was one of the first groups
researching the relationships between humans and robots. And I still had this dream
to make an actual, physical Luxo Jr. lamp. But I found that robots didn't move
at all in this engaging way that I was used to
from my animation studies. Instead, they were all --
how should I put it -- they were all kind of robotic. (Laughter) And I thought, what if I took
whatever I learned in animation school, and used that to design
my robotic desk lamp. So I went and designed frame by frame to try to make this robot as graceful
and engaging as possible. And here when you see the robot
interacting with me on a desktop -- and I'm actually redesigning the robot, so, unbeknownst to itself, it's kind of digging its own
grave by helping me. (Laughter) I wanted it to be less of a mechanical
structure giving me light, and more of a helpful,
kind of quiet apprentice that's always there when you need it
and doesn't really interfere. And when, for example, I'm looking
for a battery that I can't find, in a subtle way, it'll show me
where the battery is. So you can see my confusion here. I'm not an actor. And I want you to notice
how the same mechanical structure can, at one point,
just by the way it moves, seem gentle and caring
and in the other case, seem violent and confrontational. And it's the same structure,
just the motion is different. Actor: "You want to know something?
Well, you want to know something? He was already dead! Just laying there, eyes glazed over!" (Laughter) But, moving in a graceful way
is just one building block of this whole structure
called human-robot interaction. I was, at the time, doing my PhD,
I was working on human-robot teamwork, teams of humans and robots
working together. I was studying the engineering, the psychology,
the philosophy of teamwork, and at the same time, I found myself in my own kind
of teamwork situation, with a good friend of mine,
who's actually here. And in that situation,
we can easily imagine robots in the near future being there with us. It was after a Passover Seder. We were folding up
a lot of folding chairs, and I was amazed at how quickly
we found our own rhythm. Everybody did their own part,
we didn't have to divide our tasks. We didn't have to communicate
verbally about this -- it all just happened. And I thought, humans and robots
don't look at all like this. When humans and robots interact,
it's much more like a chess game: the human does a thing, the robot
analyzes whatever the human did, the robot decides what to do next,
plans it and does it. Then the human waits,
until it's their turn again. So it's much more like a chess game,
and that makes sense, because chess is great for mathematicians
and computer scientists. It's all about information, analysis,
decision-making and planning. But I wanted my robot
to be less of a chess player, and more like a doer that just clicks and works together. So I made my second
horrible career choice: I decided to study acting for a semester. I took off from the PhD,
I went to acting classes. I actually participated in a play -- 