I am failing as a woman, I am failing as a feminist. I have passionate opinions
about gender equality, but I worry that to freely accept
the label of "feminist," would not be fair to good feminists. I'm a feminist, but I'm a rather bad one. Oh, so I call myself a Bad Feminist. Or at least, I wrote an essay, and then I wrote a book
called "Bad Feminist," and then in interviews, people started
calling me The Bad Feminist. (Laughter) So, what started as a bit
of an inside joke with myself and a willful provocation, has become a thing. Let me take a step back. When I was younger, mostly in my teens and 20s, I had strange ideas about feminists as hairy, angry, man-hating,
sex-hating women -- as if those are bad things. (Laughter) These days, I look at how
women are treated the world over, and anger, in particular, seems
like a perfectly reasonable response. But back then, I worried about the tone people used
 when suggesting I might be a feminist. The feminist label was an accusation, it was an "F" word, and not a nice one. I was labeled a woman
who doesn't play by the rules, who expects too much, who thinks far too highly of myself, by daring to believe I'm equal --
(Coughs) -- superior to a man. You don't want to be that rebel woman, until you realize that you
very much are that woman, and cannot imagine being anyone else. As I got older, I began to accept that I am, indeed, a feminist,
and a proud one. I hold certain truths to be self-evident: Women are equal to men. We deserve equal pay for equal work. We have the right to move
through the world as we choose, free from harassment or violence. We have the right to easy,
affordable access to birth control, and reproductive services. We have the right to make choices
about our bodies, free from legislative oversight
or evangelical doctrine. We have the right to respect. There's more. When we talk about the needs of women, we have to consider
the other identities we inhabit. We are not just women. We are people with different bodies, gender expressions, faiths, sexualities, class backgrounds, abilities,
and so much more. We need to take into account these differences and how they affect us, as much as we account for
what we have in common. Without this kind of inclusion,
our feminism is nothing. I hold these truths to be self-evident,
but let me be clear: I'm a mess. I am full of contradictions. There are many ways in which
I'm doing feminism wrong. I have another confession. When I drive to work, I listen
to thuggish rap at a very loud volume. (Laughter) Even though the lyrics
are degrading to women -- these lyrics offend me to my core -- the classic Yin Yang Twins
song "Salt Shaker" -- it is amazing. (Laughter) "Make it work with your wet t-shirt. Bitch, you gotta shake it
'til your camel starts to hurt!" (Laughter) Think about it. (Laughter) Poetry, right? I am utterly mortified
by my music choices. (Laughter) I firmly believe in man work, which is anything I don't
want to do, including -- (Laughter) -- all domestic tasks, but also: bug killing, trash removal,
lawn care and vehicle maintenance. I want no part of any of that. (Laughter) Pink is my favorite color. I enjoy fashion magazines
and pretty things. I watch "The Bachelor"
and romantic comedies, and I have absurd fantasies
about fairy tales coming true. Some of my transgressions
are more flagrant. If a woman wants to take
her husband's name, that is her choice, and it is not
my place to judge. If a woman chooses to stay home
to raise her children, I embrace that choice, too. The problem is not that she makes herself
economically vulnerable in that choice; the problem is that our society is set up
 to make women economically vulnerable
when they choose. Let's deal with that. (Applause) I reject the mainstream feminism that has historically ignored
or deflected the needs of women of color, working-class women,
queer women and transgender women, in favor of supporting white, middle-
and upper-class straight women. Listen, if that's good feminism --
I am a very bad feminist. (Laughter) There is also this: As a feminist, I feel a lot of pressure. We have this tendency to put
visible feminists on a pedestal. We expect them to pose perfectly. When they disappoint us, we gleefully knock them
from the very pedestal we put them on. Like I said, I am a mess -- consider me knocked off that pedestal
 before you ever try to put me up there. (Laughter) Too many women, particularly groundbreaking women
and industry leaders, are afraid to be labeled as feminists. They're afraid to stand up and say,
"Yes, I am a feminist," for fear of what that label means, for fear of being unable to live up to
unrealistic expectations. 