The narrative of a rising Africa
is being challenged. About 10 years ago,
I spoke about an Africa, an Africa of hope and opportunity, an Africa of entrepreneurs, an Africa very different from the Africa
that you normally hear about of death, poverty and disease. And that what I spoke about, became part of what is known now
as the narrative of the rising Africa. I want to tell you two stories
about this rising Africa. The first has to do with Rwanda, a country that has gone
through many trials and tribulations. And Rwanda has decided to become
the technology hub, or a technology hub on the continent. It's a country with mountainous
and hilly terrain, a little bit like here, so it's very difficult
to deliver services to people. So what has Rwanda said? In order to save lives,
it's going to try using drones to deliver lifesaving drugs,
vaccines and blood to people in hard-to-reach places in partnership with
a company called Zipline, with UPS, and also with the Gavi,
a global vaccine alliance. In doing this, it will save lives. This is part of the type of innovation
we want to see in the rising Africa. The second story has to do with something that I'm sure most of you
have seen or will remember. Very often, countries in Africa
suffer drought and floods, and it's getting more frequent
because of climate change effects. When this happens, they normally wait
for international appeals to raise money. You see pictures of children
with flies on their faces, carcasses of dead animals and so on. Now these countries,
32 countries, came together under the auspices of the African Union and decided to form an organization
called the African Risk Capacity. What does it do? It's a weather-based insurance agency, and what these countries do
is to pay insurance each year, about 3 million dollars a year
of their own resources, so that in the event they have
a difficult drought situation or flood, this money will be paid out to them, which they can then use
to take care of their populations, instead of waiting for aid to come. The African Risk Capacity
last year paid 26 million dollars to Mauritania, Senegal and Niger. This enabled them to take care
of 1.3 million people affected by drought. They were able to restore livelihoods, buy fodder for cattle,
feed children in school and in short keep the populations home
instead of migrating out of the area. So these are the kinds of stories of an Africa ready
to take responsibility for itself, and to look for solutions
for its own problems. But that narrative is being challenged now because the continent has not
been doing well in the last two years. It had been growing
at five percent per annum for the last one and a half decades, but this year's forecast
was three percent. Why? In an uncertain global environment,
commodity prices have fallen. Many of the economies
are still commodity driven, and therefore their
performance has slipped. And now the issue of Brexit
doesn't make it any easier. I never knew that the Brexit could happen and that it could be one of the things
that would cause global uncertainty such as we have. So now we've got this situation, and I think it's time to take stock and to say what were the things
that the African countries did right? What did they do wrong? How do we build on all of this
and learn lessons so that we can keep Africa rising? So let me talk about six things
that I think we did right. The first is managing
our economies better. The '80s and '90s were the lost decades,
when Africa was not doing well, and some of you will remember
an "Economist" cover that said, "The Lost Continent." But in the 2000s, policymakers learned that they needed to manage
the macroeconomic environment better, to ensure stability, keep inflation low in single digits, keep their fiscal deficits low,
below three percent of GDP, give investors, both domestic and foreign, some stability so they'll have confidence
to invest in these economies. So that was number one. Two, debt. In 1994, the debt-to-GDP ratio
of African countries was 130 percent, and they didn't have fiscal space. They couldn't use their resources
to invest in their development because they were paying debt. There may be some of you in this room
who worked to support African countries to get debt relief. So private creditors, multilaterals
and bilaterals came together and decided to do the Highly Indebted
Poor Countries Initiative and give debt relief. So this debt relief in 2005 made the debt-to-GDP ratio
fall down to about 30 percent, and there was enough resources
to try and reinvest. The third thing was
loss-making enterprises. Governments were involved in business which they had no business being in. And they were running businesses,
they were making losses. So some of these enterprises
were restructured, commercialized, privatized or closed, and they became
less of a burden on government. The fourth thing
was a very interesting thing. The telecoms revolution came, and African countries jumped on it. In 2000, we had 11 million phone lines. Today, we have about 687 million
mobile lines on the continent. And this has enabled us to go, move forward
with some mobile technology where Africa is actually leading. In Kenya, the development
of mobile money -- M-Pesa, which all of you
have heard about -- it took some time for the world
to notice that Africa was ahead in this particular technology. And this mobile money
is also providing a platform for access to alternative energy. You know, people who can now pay for solar the same way they pay
for cards for their telephone. So this was a very good development,
something that went right. We also invested more
in education and health, not enough, but there were some improvements. 250 million children were immunized
in the last one and a half decades. The other thing was
that conflicts decreased. There were many conflicts
on the continent. Many of you are aware of that. But they came down, and our leaders
even managed to dampen some coups. New types of conflicts have emerged,
and I'll refer to those later. So based on all this, there's also
some differentiation on the continent that I want you to know about, because even as
the doom and gloom is here, 