My son and the iPhone
were born three weeks apart in June 2007. So while those early adopters
were lined up outside, waiting to get their hands
on this amazing new gadget, I was stuck at home
with my hands full of something else that was sending out
constant notifications -- (Laughter) a miserable, colicky baby who would only sleep in a moving stroller
with complete silence. I literally was walking
10 to 15 miles a day, and the baby weight came off. That part was great. But man, was I bored. Before motherhood, I had been a journalist who rushed off when the Concorde crashed. I was one of the first
people into Belgrade when there was a revolution in Serbia. Now, I was exhausted. This walking went on for weeks. It was only until about three months in
that something shifted, though. As I pounded the pavement, my mind started to wander, too. I began imagining what I would do
when I finally did sleep again. So the colic did fade, and I finally got an iPhone and I put all those hours
of wandering into action. I created my dream job
hosting a public radio show. So there was no more
rushing off to war zones, but thanks to my new smartphone, I could be a mother and a journalist. I could be on the playground
and on Twitter at the same time. Yeah, well, when I thought that, when the technology came in and took over, that is when I hit a wall. So, I want you to picture this: you host a podcast, and you have to prove that the investment
of precious public radio dollars in you is worth it. My goal was to increase
my audience size tenfold. So one day, I sat down to brainstorm, as you do, and I came up barren. This was different
than writer's block, right? It wasn't like there was something there
waiting to be unearthed. There was just nothing. And so I started to think back: When was the last time
I actually had a good idea? Yeah, it was when I was pushing
that damn stroller. Now all the cracks in my day
were filled with phone time. I checked the headlines
while I waited for my latte. I updated my calendar
while I was sitting on the couch. Texting turned every spare moment into a chance to show to my coworkers
and my dear husband what a responsive person I was, or at least it was a chance to find
another perfect couch for my page on Pinterest. I realized that I was never bored. And anyway, don't only
boring people get bored? But then I started to wonder: What actually happens to us
when we get bored? Or, more importantly: What happens to us
if we never get bored? And what could happen if we got rid of
this human emotion entirely? I started talking to neuroscientists
and cognitive psychologists, and what they told me was fascinating. It turns out that when you get bored, you ignite a network in your brain
called the "default mode." So our body, it goes on autopilot
while we're folding the laundry or we're walking to work, but actually that is when our brain
gets really busy. Here's boredom researcher Dr. Sandi Mann. (Audio) Dr. Sandi Mann:
Once you start daydreaming and allow your mind to really wander, you start thinking a little bit
beyond the conscious, a little bit into the subconscious, which allows sort of different
connections to take place. It's really awesome, actually. Manoush Zomorodi: Totally awesome, right? So this is my brain in an fMRI, and I learned that in the default mode
is when we connect disparate ideas, we solve some of our most
nagging problems, and we do something called
"autobiographical planning." This is when we look back at our lives, we take note of the big moments,
we create a personal narrative, and then we set goals and we figure out what steps
we need to take to reach them. But now we chill out on the couch
also while updating a Google Doc or replying to email. We call it "getting shit done," but here's what neuroscientist
Dr. Daniel Levitin says we're actually doing. (Audio) Dr. Daniel Levitin:
Every time you shift your attention from one thing to another, the brain has to engage
a neurochemical switch that uses up nutrients in the brain
to accomplish that. So if you're attempting to multitask, you know, doing four
or five things at once, you're not actually doing
four or five things at once, because the brain doesn't work that way. Instead, you're rapidly shifting
from one thing to the next, depleting neural resources as you go. (Audio) MZ: So switch, switch, switch,
you're using glucose, glucose, glucose. (Audio) DL: Exactly right, and we have
a limited supply of that stuff. MZ: A decade ago, we shifted
our attention at work every three minutes. Now we do it every 45 seconds, and we do it all day long. The average person checks email
74 times a day, and switches tasks on their computer 566 times a day. I discovered all this
talking to professor of informatics, Dr. Gloria Mark. (Audio) Dr. Gloria Mark: So we find
that when people are stressed, they tend to shift
their attention more rapidly. We also found, strangely enough, that the shorter the amount of sleep
that a person gets, the more likely they are
to check Facebook. So we're in this vicious, habitual cycle. MZ: But could this cycle be broken? What would happen
if we broke this vicious cycle? Maybe my listeners could help me find out. What if we reclaimed
those cracks in our day? Could it help us
jump-start our creativity? We called the project
"Bored and Brilliant." And I expected, you know,
a couple hundred people to play along, but thousands of people
started signing up. And they told me the reason
they were doing it was because they were worried
that their relationship with their phone had grown kind of ...
"codependent," shall we say. (Audio) Man: The relationship
between a baby and its teddy bear or a baby and its binky or a baby that wants its mother's cradle when it's done with being held
by a stranger -- (Laughs) that's the relationship
between me and my phone. (Audio) Woman: I think of my phone
like a power tool: extremely useful, but dangerous
if I'm not handling it properly. (Audio) Woman 2:
If I don't pay close attention, I'll suddenly realize
that I've lost an hour of time doing something totally mindless. MZ: OK, but to really measure
any improvement, we needed data, right? Because that's what we do these days. So we partnered with some apps
that would measure how much time we were spending every day on our phone. If you're thinking it's ironic that I asked people
to download another app so that they would spend
less time on their phones: yeah, but you gotta meet people
where they are. (Laughter) So before challenge week, we were averaging two hours
a day on our phones and 60 pickups, you know, like, a quick check,
did I get a new email? Here's what Tina, a student
at Bard College, discovered about herself. (Audio) Tina: So far, I've been spending between 150 and 200 minutes
on my phone per day, and I've been picking up my phone
70 to 100 times per day. And it's really concerning, because that's so much time
that I could have spent doing something more productive,
more creative, more towards myself, because when I'm on my phone,
I'm not doing anything important. MZ: Like Tina, people were starting
to observe their own behavior. They were getting ready
for challenge week. And that Monday, they started to wake up
to instructions in their inbox, an experiment to try. Day one: "Put it in your pocket." Take that phone out of your hand. See if you can eliminate the reflex
to check it all day long, just for a day. And if this sounds easy, you haven't tried it. Here's listener Amanda Itzko. (Audio) Amanda Itzko:
I am absolutely itching. I feel a little bit crazy, because I have noticed
that I pick up my phone when I'm just walking
from one room to another, getting on the elevator, and even -- and this is the part
that I am really embarrassed to actually say out loud -- in the car. MZ: Yikes. Yeah, well, but as Amanda learned, this itching feeling
is not actually her fault. That is exactly the behavior
that the technology is built to trigger. (Laughter) I mean, right? Here's former Google designer,
Tristan Harris. (Audio) Tristan Harris: If I'm Facebook
or I'm Netflix or I'm Snapchat, I have literally a thousand engineers whose job is to get
more attention from you. I'm very good at this, and I don't want you to ever stop. And you know, the CEO
of Netflix recently said, "Our biggest competitors
are Facebook, YouTube and sleep." I mean, so there's a million places
to spend your attention, but there's a war going on to get it. MZ: I mean, you know the feeling: that amazing episode
of "Transparent" ends, and then the next one starts playing so you're like, eh, OK fine,
I'll just stay up and watch it. Or the LinkedIn progress bar
says you are this close to having the perfect profile, so you add a little more
personal information. As one UX designer told me, the only people who refer
to their customers as "users" are drug dealers and technologists. (Laughter) (Applause) And users, as we know,
are worth a lot of money. Here's former Facebook
product manager and author, 