We are today talking
about moral persuasion: What is moral and immoral
in trying to change people's behaviors by using technology and using design? And I don't know what you expect, but when I was thinking about that issue, I early on realized what I'm not able
to give you are answers. I'm not able to tell you
what is moral or immoral, because we're living
in a pluralist society. My values can be radically
different from your values, which means that what I consider
moral or immoral based on that might not necessarily be
what you consider moral or immoral. But I also realized
there is one thing that I could give you, and that is what this guy
behind me gave the world -- Socrates. It is questions. What I can do and what
I would like to do with you is give you, like that initial question, a set of questions
to figure out for yourselves, layer by layer, like peeling an onion, getting at the core of what you believe
is moral or immoral persuasion. And I'd like to do that
with a couple of examples of technologies where people have used game elements
to get people to do things. So it's at first a very simple,
very obvious question I would like to give you: What are your intentions
if you are designing something? And obviously, intentions
are not the only thing, so here is another example
for one of these applications. There are a couple of these kinds
of Eco dashboards right now -- dashboards built into cars -- which try to motivate you
to drive more fuel-efficiently. This here is Nissan's MyLeaf, where your driving behavior
is compared with the driving behavior of other people, so you can compete for who drives a route
the most fuel-efficiently. And these things are
very effective, it turns out -- so effective that they motivate people
to engage in unsafe driving behaviors, like not stopping at a red light, because that way you have
to stop and restart the engine, and that would use quite
some fuel, wouldn't it? So despite this being
a very well-intended application, obviously there was a side effect of that. Here's another example
for one of these side effects. Commendable: a site that allows parents
to give their kids little badges for doing the things
that parents want their kids to do, like tying their shoes. And at first that sounds very nice, very benign, well-intended. But it turns out, if you look into
research on people's mindset, caring about outcomes, caring about public recognition, caring about these kinds
of public tokens of recognition is not necessarily very helpful for your long-term
psychological well-being. It's better if you care
about learning something. It's better when you care about yourself than how you appear
in front of other people. So that kind of motivational tool
that is used actually, in and of itself, has a long-term side effect, in that every time we use a technology that uses something
like public recognition or status, we're actually positively endorsing this as a good and normal thing
to care about -- that way, possibly having
a detrimental effect on the long-term psychological
well-being of ourselves as a culture. So that's a second, very obvious question: What are the effects
of what you're doing -- the effects you're having
with the device, like less fuel, as well as the effects
of the actual tools you're using to get people to do things -- public recognition? Now is that all -- intention, effect? Well, there are some technologies
which obviously combine both. Both good long-term and short-term effects and a positive intention
like Fred Stutzman's "Freedom," where the whole point
of that application is -- well, we're usually so bombarded
with constant requests by other people, with this device, you can shut off the Internet
connectivity of your PC of choice for a pre-set amount of time, to actually get some work done. And I think most of us will agree
that's something well-intended, and also has good consequences. In the words of Michel Foucault, it is a "technology of the self." It is a technology
that empowers the individual to determine its own life course, to shape itself. But the problem is,
as Foucault points out, that every technology of the self has a technology of domination
as its flip side. As you see in today's modern
liberal democracies, the society, the state,
not only allows us to determine our self, to shape our self, it also demands it of us. It demands that we optimize ourselves, that we control ourselves, that we self-manage continuously, because that's the only way
in which such a liberal society works. These technologies want us
to stay in the game that society has devised for us. They want us to fit in even better. They want us to optimize
ourselves to fit in. Now, I don't say that
is necessarily a bad thing; I just think that this example
points us to a general realization, and that is: no matter what technology
or design you look at, even something we consider
as well-intended and as good in its effects
as Stutzman's Freedom, comes with certain values embedded in it. And we can question these values. We can question: Is it a good thing that all of us continuously
self-optimize ourselves to fit better into that society? Or to give you another example: What about a piece
of persuasive technology that convinces Muslim women
to wear their headscarves? Is that a good or a bad technology in its intentions or in its effects? Well, that basically depends on
the kind of values you bring to bear to make these kinds of judgments. So that's a third question: What values do you use to judge? And speaking of values: I've noticed that in the discussion
about moral persuasion online and when I'm talking with people, more often than not,
there is a weird bias. And that bias is that we're asking: Is this or that "still" ethical? Is it "still" permissible? We're asking things like: Is this Oxfam donation form, where the regular monthly
donation is the preset default, and people, maybe without intending it, are encouraged or nudged
into giving a regular donation instead of a one-time donation, is that "still' permissible? Is it "still" ethical? We're fishing at the low end. But in fact, that question,
"Is it 'still' ethical?" is just one way of looking at ethics. Because if you look at the beginning
of ethics in Western culture, you see a very different idea
of what ethics also could be. For Aristotle, ethics
was not about the question, "Is that still good, or is it bad?" Ethics was about the question
of how to live life well. 