So I'm an artist, but a little bit of a peculiar one. I don't paint. I can't draw. My shop teacher in high school
wrote that I was a menace on my report card. You probably don't really
want to see my photographs. But there is one thing I know how to do: I know how to program a computer. I can code. And people will tell me
that 100 years ago, folks like me didn't exist, that it was impossible, that art made with data is a new thing, it's a product of our age, it's something that's really important to think of as something
that's very "now." And that's true. But there is an art form
that's been around for a very long time that's really about using information, abstract information, to make emotionally resonant pieces. And it's called music. We've been making music
for tens of thousands of years, right? And if you think about what music is -- notes and chords and keys
and harmonies and melodies -- these things are algorithms. These things are systems that are designed to unfold over time, to make us feel. I came to the arts through music. I was trained as a composer, and about 15 years ago,
I started making pieces that were designed to look
at the intersection between sound and image, to use an image to unveil
a musical structure or to use a sound to show you
something interesting about something that's usually pictorial. So what you're seeing on the screen
is literally being drawn by the musical structure
of the musicians onstage, and there's no accident
that it looks like a plant, because the underlying
algorithmic biology of the plant is what informed the musical structure
in the first place. So once you know how to do this,
once you know how to code with media, you can do some pretty cool stuff. This is a project I did
for the Sundance Film Festival. Really simple idea: you take
every Academy Award Best Picture, you speed it up to one minute each and string them all together. And so in 75 minutes, I can show you
the history of Hollywood cinema. And what it really shows you
is the history of editing in Hollywood cinema. So on the left, we've got Casablanca;
on the right, we've got Chicago. And you can see that Casablanca
is a little easier to read. That's because the average length
of a cinematic shot in the 1940s was 26 seconds, and now it's around six seconds. This is a project that was inspired by some work that was funded
by the US Federal Government in the early 2000s, to look at video footage and find
a specific actor in any video. And so I repurposed this code
to train a system on one person in our culture who would never need
to be surveilled in that manner, which is Britney Spears. I downloaded 2,000 paparazzi
photos of Britney Spears and trained my computer to find her face and her face alone. I can run any footage of her through it
and will center her eyes in the frame, and this sort of is a little
double commentary about surveillance in our society. We are very fraught with anxiety
about being watched, but then we obsess over celebrity. What you're seeing on the screen here
is a collaboration I did 