Here's a startling fact: in the 45 years since the introduction
of the automated teller machine, those vending machines that dispense cash, the number of human bank tellers
employed in the United States has roughly doubled, from about a quarter of a million
to a half a million. A quarter of a million in 1970
to about a half a million today, with 100,000 added since the year 2000. These facts, revealed in a recent book by Boston University
economist James Bessen, raise an intriguing question: what are all those tellers doing, and why hasn't automation
eliminated their employment by now? If you think about it, many of the great inventions
of the last 200 years were designed to replace human labor. Tractors were developed to substitute mechanical power
for human physical toil. Assembly lines were engineered to replace inconsistent human handiwork with machine perfection. Computers were programmed to swap out error-prone, inconsistent
human calculation with digital perfection. These inventions have worked. We no longer dig ditches by hand, pound tools out of wrought iron or do bookkeeping using actual books. And yet, the fraction of US adults
employed in the labor market is higher now in 2016 than it was 125 years ago, in 1890, and it's risen in just about every decade in the intervening 125 years. This poses a paradox. Our machines increasingly
do our work for us. Why doesn't this make our labor redundant
and our skills obsolete? Why are there still so many jobs? (Laughter) I'm going to try to answer
that question tonight, and along the way, I'm going to tell you
what this means for the future of work and the challenges that automation
does and does not pose for our society. Why are there so many jobs? There are actually two fundamental
economic principles at stake. One has to do with human genius and creativity. The other has to do
with human insatiability, or greed, if you like. I'm going to call the first of these
the O-ring principle, and it determines
the type of work that we do. The second principle
is the never-get-enough principle, and it determines how many jobs
there actually are. Let's start with the O-ring. ATMs, automated teller machines, had two countervailing effects
on bank teller employment. As you would expect,
they replaced a lot of teller tasks. The number of tellers per branch
fell by about a third. But banks quickly discovered that it
also was cheaper to open new branches, and the number of bank branches
increased by about 40 percent in the same time period. The net result was more branches
and more tellers. But those tellers were doing
somewhat different work. As their routine,
cash-handling tasks receded, they became less like checkout clerks and more like salespeople, forging relationships with customers, solving problems and introducing them to new products
like credit cards, loans and investments: more tellers doing
a more cognitively demanding job. There's a general principle here. Most of the work that we do requires a multiplicity of skills, and brains and brawn, technical expertise and intuitive mastery, perspiration and inspiration
in the words of Thomas Edison. In general, automating
some subset of those tasks doesn't make the other ones unnecessary. In fact, it makes them more important. It increases their economic value. Let me give you a stark example. In 1986, the space shuttle Challenger exploded and crashed back down to Earth less than two minutes after takeoff. The cause of that crash, it turned out, was an inexpensive rubber O-ring
in the booster rocket that had frozen on the launchpad
the night before and failed catastrophically
moments after takeoff. In this multibillion dollar enterprise that simple rubber O-ring made the difference
between mission success and the calamitous death
of seven astronauts. An ingenious metaphor
for this tragic setting is the O-ring production function, named by Harvard economist Michael Kremer after the Challenger disaster. The O-ring production function
conceives of the work as a series of interlocking steps, links in a chain. Every one of those links must hold
for the mission to succeed. If any of them fails, the mission, or the product
or the service, comes crashing down. This precarious situation
has a surprisingly positive implication, which is that improvements in the reliability
of any one link in the chain increases the value
of improving any of the other links. Concretely, if most of the links
are brittle and prone to breakage, the fact that your link
is not that reliable is not that important. Probably something else will break anyway. But as all the other links
become robust and reliable, the importance of your link
becomes more essential. In the limit, everything depends upon it. The reason the O-ring was critical
to space shuttle Challenger is because everything else
worked perfectly. If the Challenger were
kind of the space era equivalent of Microsoft Windows 2000 -- (Laughter) the reliability of the O-ring
wouldn't have mattered because the machine would have crashed. (Laughter) Here's the broader point. In much of the work that we do,
we are the O-rings. Yes, ATMs could do
certain cash-handling tasks faster and better than tellers, but that didn't make tellers superfluous. It increased the importance
of their problem-solving skills and their relationships with customers. The same principle applies
if we're building a building, if we're diagnosing
and caring for a patient, or if we are teaching a class to a roomful of high schoolers. As our tools improve, technology magnifies our leverage and increases the importance
of our expertise and our judgment and our creativity. And that brings me
to the second principle: never get enough. You may be thinking, OK, O-ring, got it, that says the jobs that people do
will be important. They can't be done by machines,
but they still need to be done. But that doesn't tell me
how many jobs there will need to be. If you think about it,
isn't it kind of self-evident that once we get sufficiently
productive at something, we've basically
worked our way out of a job? In 1900, 40 percent of all US employment was on farms. Today, it's less than two percent. Why are there so few farmers today? It's not because we're eating less. (Laughter) A century of productivity
growth in farming means that now,
a couple of million farmers can feed a nation of 320 million. That's amazing progress, but it also means there are
only so many O-ring jobs left in farming. So clearly, technology can eliminate jobs. Farming is only one example. There are many others like it. But what's true about a single product
or service or industry has never been true
about the economy as a whole. Many of the industries
in which we now work -- health and medicine, finance and insurance, electronics and computing -- were tiny or barely existent
a century ago. Many of the products
that we spend a lot of our money on -- air conditioners, sport utility vehicles, computers and mobile devices -- were unattainably expensive, or just hadn't been invented
a century ago. As automation frees our time,
increases the scope of what is possible, we invent new products,
new ideas, new services that command our attention, occupy our time and spur consumption. You may think some
of these things are frivolous -- extreme yoga, adventure tourism, 