What you have here is an electronic cigarette. It's something that, since it was
invented a year or two ago, has given me untold happiness. (Laughter) A little bit of it,
I think, is the nicotine, but there's something
much bigger than that; which is, ever since, in the UK,
they banned smoking in public places, I've never enjoyed
a drinks party ever again. (Laughter) And the reason, I only worked out
just the other day, which is: when you go
to a drinks party and you stand up and hold a glass of red wine
and you talk endlessly to people, you don't actually want to spend
all the time talking. It's really, really tiring. Sometimes you just want to stand there
silently, alone with your thoughts. Sometimes you just want to stand
in the corner and stare out of the window. Now the problem is, when you can't smoke, if you stand and stare
out of the window on your own, you're an antisocial, friendless idiot. (Laughter) If you stand and stare out of the window
on your own with a cigarette, you're a fucking philosopher. (Laughter) (Applause) So the power of reframing things cannot be overstated. What we have is exactly
the same thing, the same activity, but one of them makes you feel great and the other one,
with just a small change of posture, makes you feel terrible. And I think one of the problems
with classical economics is, it's absolutely preoccupied with reality. And reality isn't a particularly good
guide to human happiness. Why, for example,
are pensioners much happier than the young unemployed? Both of them, after all,
are in exactly the same stage of life. You both have too much time
on your hands and not much money. But pensioners are reportedly
very, very happy, whereas the unemployed
are extraordinarily unhappy and depressed. The reason, I think,
is that the pensioners believe they've chosen to be pensioners, whereas the young unemployed
feel it's been thrust upon them. In England, the upper-middle classes have
actually solved this problem perfectly, because they've re-branded unemployment. If you're an upper-middle-class
English person, you call unemployment "a year off." (Laughter) And that's because having a son
who's unemployed in Manchester is really quite embarrassing. But having a son
who's unemployed in Thailand is really viewed
as quite an accomplishment. (Laughter) But actually, the power
to re-brand things -- to understand that
our experiences, costs, things don't actually much depend
on what they really are, but on how we view them -- I genuinely think can't be overstated. There's an experiment
I think Daniel Pink refers to, where you put two dogs in a box and the box has an electric floor. Every now and then,
an electric shock is applied to the floor, which pains the dogs. The only difference is one of the dogs
has a small button in its half of the box. And when it nuzzles the button,
the electric shock stops. The other dog doesn't have the button. It's exposed to exactly the same level
of pain as the dog in the first box, but it has no control
over the circumstances. Generally, the first dog
can be relatively content. The second dog lapses
into complete depression. The circumstances of our lives
may actually matter less to our happiness than the sense of control
we feel over our lives. It's an interesting question. We ask the question -- the whole
debate in the Western world is about the level of taxation. But I think there's another
debate to be asked, which is the level of control
we have over our tax money, that what costs us 10 pounds
in one context can be a curse; what costs us 10 pounds in a different
context, we may actually welcome. You know, pay 20,000 pounds
in tax toward health, and you're merely feeling a mug. Pay 20,000 pounds
to endow a hospital ward, and you're called a philanthropist. I'm probably in the wrong country
to talk about willingness to pay tax. (Laughter) So I'll give you one in return:
how you frame things really matters. Do you call it "The bailout of Greece"? Or "The bailout of a load of stupid banks
which lent to Greece"? (Laughter) Because they are actually the same thing. What you call them
actually affects how you react to them, viscerally and morally. I think psychological value is great,
to be absolutely honest. One of my great friends,
a professor called Nick Chater, who's the Professor of Decision
Sciences in London, believes we should spend far less time
looking into humanity's hidden depths, and spend much more time
exploring the hidden shallows. I think that's true, actually. I think impressions have an insane effect
on what we think and what we do. But what we don't have is a really
good model of human psychology -- at least pre-Kahneman, perhaps, we didn't have a really good model
of human psychology to put alongside models of engineering,
of neoclassical economics. So people who believed in psychological
solutions didn't have a model. We didn't have a framework. This is what Warren Buffett's
business partner Charlie Munger calls "a latticework on which
to hang your ideas." Engineers, economists,
classical economists all had a very, very robust
existing latticework on which practically
every idea could be hung. We merely have a collection
of random individual insights without an overall model. And what that means
is that, in looking at solutions, we've probably given too much priority to what I call technical engineering
solutions, Newtonian solutions, and not nearly enough
to the psychological ones. You know my example of the Eurostar: six million pounds spent to reduce the journey time
between Paris and London by about 40 minutes. For 0.01 percent of this money,
you could have put wi-fi on the trains, which wouldn't have reduced
the duration of the journey, but would have improved its enjoyment
and its usefulness far more. For maybe 10 percent of the money, you could have paid all of the world's top
male and female supermodels 