Last year, I went on my first book tour. In 13 months, I flew to 14 countries and gave some hundred talks. Every talk in every country began with an introduction, and every introduction began,
alas, with a lie: "Taiye Selasi comes
from Ghana and Nigeria," or "Taiye Selasi comes
from England and the States." Whenever I heard this opening sentence, no matter the country that concluded it -- England, America, Ghana, Nigeria -- I thought, "But that's not true." Yes, I was born in England
and grew up in the United States. My mum, born in England,
and raised in Nigeria, currently lives in Ghana. My father was born in Gold Coast,
a British colony, raised in Ghana, and has lived for over 30 years
in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. For this reason, my introducers
also called me "multinational." "But Nike is multinational," I thought, "I'm a human being." Then, one fine day, mid-tour, I went to Louisiana, a museum in Denmark where I shared the stage
with the writer Colum McCann. We were discussing the role
of locality in writing, when suddenly it hit me. I'm not multinational. I'm not a national at all. How could I come from a nation? How can a human being come from a concept? It's a question that had been bothering me
for going on two decades. From newspapers, textbooks, conversations, I had learned to speak of countries as if they were eternal, singular,
naturally occurring things, but I wondered: to say that I came from a country suggested that the country
was an absolute, some fixed point in place in time, a constant thing, but was it? In my lifetime, countries
had disappeared -- Czechoslovakia; appeared -- Timor-Leste;
failed -- Somalia. My parents came from countries
that didn't exist when they were born. To me, a country -- this thing that could
be born, die, expand, contract -- hardly seemed the basis
for understanding a human being. And so it came as a huge relief
to discover the sovereign state. What we call countries are actually various expressions
of sovereign statehood, an idea that came into fashion
only 400 years ago. When I learned this, beginning my
masters degree in international relations, I felt a sort of surge of relief. It was as I had suspected. History was real, cultures were real, but countries were invented. For the next 10 years, I sought
to re- or un-define myself, my world, my work, my experience, beyond the logic of the state. In 2005, I wrote an essay,
"What is an Afropolitan," sketching out an identity
that privileged culture over country. It was thrilling how many people
could relate to my experience, and instructional how many others
didn't buy my sense of self. "How can Selasi claim to come from Ghana,"
one such critic asked, "when she's never known the indignities of traveling abroad
on a Ghanian passport?" Now, if I'm honest, I knew just what she meant. I've got a friend named Layla
who was born and raised in Ghana. Her parents are third-generation
Ghanians of Lebanese descent. Layla, who speaks fluent Twi,
knows Accra like the back of her hand, but when we first met years ago,
I thought, "She's not from Ghana." In my mind, she came from Lebanon, despite the patent fact
that all her formative experience took place in suburban Accra. I, like my critics, was imagining some Ghana
where all Ghanaians had brown skin or none held U.K. passports. I'd fallen into the limiting trap that the language of coming
from countries sets -- the privileging of a fiction,
the singular country, over reality: human experience. Speaking with Colum McCann that day,
the penny finally dropped. "All experience is local," he said. "All identity is experience," I thought. "I'm not a national,"
I proclaimed onstage. "I'm a local. I'm multi-local." See, "Taiye Selasi comes
from the United States," isn't the truth. I have no relationship
with the United States, all 50 of them, not really. My relationship is with Brookline,
the town where I grew up; with New York City, where I started work; with Lawrenceville,
where I spend Thanksgiving. What makes America home for me
is not my passport or accent, but these very particular experiences and the places they occur. Despite my pride in Ewe culture, the Black Stars,
and my love of Ghanaian food, I've never had a relationship
with the Republic of Ghana, writ large. My relationship is with Accra,
where my mother lives, where I go each year, with the little garden in Dzorwulu
where my father and I talk for hours. These are the places
that shape my experience. My experience is where I'm from. What if we asked, instead
of "Where are you from?" -- "Where are you a local?" This would tell us so much more
about who and how similar we are. 