I'm a marine biologist
and an explorer-photographer with National Geographic, but I want to share a secret. This image is totally incorrect, totally incorrect. I see a couple of people
crying in the back that I've blown their idea of mermaids. All right, the mermaid is indeed real, but anyone who's gone on a dive will know that the ocean
looks more like this. It's because the ocean
is this massive filter, and as soon as you start going underwater, you're going to lose your colors, and it's going to get dark
and blue very quickly. But we're humans --
we're terrestrial mammals. And we've got trichromatic vision, so we see in red, green and blue, and we're just complete color addicts. We love eye-popping color, and we try to bring this eye-popping color underwater with us. So there's been a long and sordid history
of bringing color underwater, and it starts 88 years ago
with Bill Longley and Charles Martin, who were trying to take
the first underwater color photograph. And they're in there
with old-school scuba suits, where you're pumping air down to them, and they've got a pontoon
of high-explosive magnesium powder, and the poor people
at the surface are not sure when they're going to pull the string
when they've got their frame in focus, and -- boom! -- a pound
of high explosives would go off so they could put
a little bit of light underwater and get an image
like this beautiful hogfish. I mean, it's a gorgeous image,
but this is not real. They're creating an artificial environment so we can satisfy
our own addiction to color. And looking at it the other way,
what we've been finding is that instead of bringing color
underwater with us, that we've been looking at the blue ocean, and it's a crucible of blue, and these animals living there
for millions of years have been evolving all sorts of ways
to take in that blue light and give off other colors. And here's just a little sample
of what this secret world looks like. It's like an underwater light show. (Music) Again, what we're seeing here
is blue light hitting this image. These animals are absorbing the blue light and immediately transforming this light. So if you think about it, the ocean
is 71 percent of the planet, and blue light can extend down
to almost a 1,000 meters. As we go down underwater, after about 10 meters,
all the red is gone. So if you see anything
under 10 meters that's red, it's an animal transforming
and creating its own red. This is the largest single monochromatic
blue environment on our planet. And my gateway into this world
of biofluorescence begins with corals. And I want to give
a full TED Talk on corals and just how cool these things are. One of the things that they do,
one of their miraculous feats, is they produce lots of these
fluorescent proteins, fluorescent molecules. And in this coral, it could be making
up to 14 percent of its body mass -- could be this fluorescent protein. So you wouldn't be making, like,
14 percent muscle and not using it, so it's likely doing something
that has a functional role. And for the last 10, 15 years,
this was so special to me, because this molecule has turned out
to be one of the most revolutionary tools in biomedical science, and it's allowing us
to better see inside ourselves. So, how do I study this? In order to study biofluorescence,
we swim at night. And when I started out, I was just using these blue
duct-tape filters over my strobe, so I could make sure
I'm actually seeing the light that's being transformed by the animals. We're making an exhibit
for the Museum of Natural History, and we're trying to show off how great
the fluorescent corals are on the reef, and something happened
that just blew me away: this. In the middle of our corals, is this green fluorescent fish. It's the first time we've ever seen
a green fluorescent fish or any vertebrate for that matter. And we're rubbing our eyes,
checking the filters, thinking that somebody's maybe
playing a joke on us with the camera, but the eel was real. It was the first green
fluorescent eel that we found, and this just changed
my trajectory completely. So I had to put down my corals and team up with a fish scientist, John Sparks, and begin a search around the world to see how prevalent this phenomenon is. And fish are much more
interesting than corals, because they have really advanced vision, and some of the fish even have,
the way that I was photographing it, they have lenses in their eyes
that would magnify the fluorescence. So I wanted to seek this out further. So we designed a new set of gear and we're scouring the reefs
around the world, looking for fluorescent life. And it's a bit like "E.T. phone home." We're out there swimming
with this blue light, and we're looking for a response, for animals to be absorbing the light
and transferring this back to us. And eventually, we found
our photobombing Kaupichphys eel. It's a really shy, reclusive eel
that we know almost nothing about. They're only about the size of my finger, and they spend about 99.9 percent
of their time hidden under a rock. But these eels do come out to mate
under full-moon nights, and that full-moon night
translates underwater to blue. Perhaps they're using this
as a way to see each other, quickly find each other, mate, go back into their hole
for the next long stint of time. But then we started to find
other fluorescent marine life, like this green fluorescent bream, with its, like, racing stripes
along its head and its nape, and it's almost camouflaged
and fluorescing at the same intensity as the fluorescent coral there. After this fish, we were introduced to this red
fluorescent scorpionfish cloaked and hidden on this rock. The only time we've ever seen this,
it's either on red fluorescent algae or red fluorescent coral. Later, we found this stealthy
green fluorescent lizardfish. These lizardfish come in many varieties, and they look almost exactly alike
under white light. But if you look at them
under fluorescent light, you see lots of patterns, you can really see
the differences among them. And in total -- we just reported
this last year -- we found over 200 species
of biofluorescent fish. 