Johnny met Donna, (Piano) and they fell in love, but had no idea what love really was. So they tried their best to make each other smile. But while learning themselves, they would have a child. But with no time to think
the whole thing through, little time to prepare, it got tough to provide for him and give him love and care. How, how, how, how, how do I?
When and where? Are questions they both often ask God. Life is full of twist, twist. Life is full of twirl,
twirl, t-twirl, twirl. Yeah, it's the weight of the world, it flips you upside down when you're young, when you're old it just spins out of control, oh. Spins out of control, so ... hold on because you'll never know. (Piano) Johnny and Donna slowly recognized that for the baby's future, they planned two different lives. Donna wanted a family. She wanted to do it right, make Johnny's house a home. She wanted to be a wife. Johnny was a dreamer. He had to move around. Yeah, he'd be there for his child, but wouldn't settle down. How, how, how, how, how do I?
When and where? Are questions they both often ask God. Life is full of twist, twist. Life is full of twirl,
twirl, t-twirl, twirl. Yeah, it's the weight of the world. It's whirlwinds and girlfriends, toys and boyfriend, friends and Frenchmen, war, peace, impeachment, gentlemen, ladies, Sunday, shady mistakes, and peach rings, blacks and bleach stains. Don't forget wasps and bee stings, oh. Whether you're Johnny or Donna, or neither of the two, just try to make the best of what's given to you. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) I don't know if you can tell,
but I love music. (Laughter) I love to sing. And it's because I feel like
it's the fast-track route to the heart. I feel like when I sing, I get to connect with each one of you. And it's not because of the tune, it's not because of the lyrics, it's not because of the tempo or the pitch. It's because, somehow,
we all understand music. It's a universal language. Imagine: one language
that we can all understand. We might not all speak it
as fluently as each other, but we can definitely understand it. And so, I speak it, and my job as the singer
or the storyteller is to fill in the blanks with technicolor. I get to tell your secrets. I get to explain
how someone else is feeling so that whoever else is listening
can finally understand. I think that with music, we have a bit of a superpower. We get to explain, we get to express, we get to move, we get to ostracize, we get to accompany. We get to do all these different things
simply by using a tune. And that's the way
I think we can change things. That's the tool I've been given
to help to change things. And think, if we all understand that we have a little bit
of tune in our hearts -- a little bit of lyrical prowess, shall we say, we get to move things forward because we can explain using a language
that we can all understand. It's undeniable. I have another song here. And we all know it very, very well. And I wonder -- I'm going to test you all. Let's see if you can join me. This is the test to see
if you understand this. (Singing) Lookin' out
on the morning rain -- (Audience sings next note) You see? (Laughter) We all understand it. We all know something. We all are connected
by a piece of music somewhere. We might not all be connected
by the same thing, but music is the one thing I believe -- storytelling in the music
is something that connects us all. Doesn't matter where we're from. So maybe, maybe it's one of the things
we can use to move us forward into that future of ours. Just maybe. I hope you enjoy this next one. (Pianist plays "Natural Woman") Lookin' out on the morning rain, I used to feel so uninspired. And when I knew I had to face another day, Lord, it made feel so tired. Before the day I met you, life was so unkind, but you're the reason
for my peace of mind. 'Cause you make me feel, you make me feel, you make me feel like a natural woman. When my soul was in the lost and found, you came along to claim it. I didn't know just what was wrong with me, 'til your kiss helped me name it. Now I'm no longer doubtful of what I'm living for, and if I make you happy, I don't need to do more. 'Cause you make me feel, you make me feel, you make me feel like a natural woman. Oh, baby what you done to me -- You make me feel so good inside. And I just wanna be close to you, you make me feel so alive. 'Cause you make me feel, you make me feel, you make me feel like a natural woman. You make me feel, you make me feel, you make me feel like a natural woman. Oh -- (Applause) Jason Webb. Thank you very much. 