In the past few months, I've been
traveling for weeks at a time with only one suitcase of clothes. One day, I was invited
to an important event, and I wanted to wear
something special and new for it. So I looked through my suitcase
and I couldn't find anything to wear. I was lucky to be at the technology
conference on that day, and I had access to 3D printers. So I quickly designed
a skirt on my computer, and I loaded the file on the printer. It just printed the pieces overnight. The next morning,
I just took all the pieces, assembled them together in my hotel room, and this is actually the skirt
that I'm wearing right now. (Applause) So it wasn't the first time
that I printed clothes. For my senior collection
at fashion design school, I decided to try and 3D print
an entire fashion collection from my home. The problem was that I barely knew
anything about 3D printing, and I had only nine months to figure out
how to print five fashionable looks. I always felt most creative
when I worked from home. I loved experimenting with new materials, and I always tried
to develop new techniques to make the most unique textiles
for my fashion projects. I loved going to old factories
and weird stores in search of leftovers
of strange powders and weird materials, and then bring them home to experiment on. As you can probably imagine, my roommates didn't like that at all. (Laughter) So I decided to move on
to working with big machines, ones that didn't fit in my living room. I love the exact
and the custom work I can do with all kinds of fashion technologies, like knitting machines
and laser cutting and silk printing. One summer break, I came here
to New York for an internship at a fashion house in Chinatown. We worked on two incredible dresses
that were 3D printed. They were amazing --
like you can see here. But I had a few issues with them. They were made from hard plastics
and that's why they were very breakable. The models couldn't sit in them, and they even got scratched
from the plastics under their arms. With 3D printing, the designers
had so much freedom to make the dresses look
exactly like they wanted, but still, they were very dependent
on big and expensive industrial printers that were located in a lab
far from their studio. Later that year, a friend gave me
a 3D printed necklace, printed using a home printer. I knew that these printers
were much cheaper and much more accessible
than the ones we used at my internship. So I looked at the necklace, and then I thought, "If I can
print a necklace from home, why not print my clothes from home, too?" I really liked the idea that I wouldn't
have to go to the market and pick fabrics that
someone else chose to sell -- I could just design them
and print them directly from home. I found a small makerspace, where I learned everything
I know about 3D printing. Right away, they literally
gave me the key to the lab, so I could experiment
into the night, every night. The main challenge was to find the right
filament for printing clothes with. So what is a filament? Filament is the material
you feed the printer with. And I spent a month or so
experimenting with PLA, which is a hard and scratchy,
breakable material. The breakthrough came
when I was introduced to Filaflex, which is a new kind of filament. It's strong, yet very flexible. And with it, I was able to print
the first garment, 