It's often said that you can tell
a lot about a person by looking at what's on their bookshelves. What do my bookshelves say about me? Well, when I asked myself
this question a few years ago, I made an alarming discovery. I'd always thought of myself
as a fairly cultured, cosmopolitan sort of person. But my bookshelves told
a rather different story. Pretty much all the titles on them were by British or North American authors, and there was almost
nothing in translation. Discovering this massive,
cultural blind spot in my reading came as quite a shock. And when I thought about it,
it seemed like a real shame. I knew there had to be lots
of amazing stories out there by writers working in languages
other than English. And it seemed really sad to think
that my reading habits meant I would probably never encounter them. So, I decided to prescribe myself an intensive course of global reading. 2012 was set to be a very
international year for the UK; it was the year of the London Olympics. And so I decided to use it
as my time frame to try to read a novel,
short story collection or memoir from every country in the world. And so I did. And it was very exciting and I learned some remarkable things and made some wonderful connections that I want to share with you today. But it started with some
practical problems. After I'd worked out which of the many
different lists of countries in the world to use for my project, I ended up going with the list
of UN-recognized nations, to which I added Taiwan, which gave me a total of 196 countries. And after I'd worked out
how to fit reading and blogging about, roughly, four books a week around working five days a week, I then had to face up to the fact
that I might even not be able to get books in English
from every country. Only around 4.5 percent
of the literary works published each year in the UK are translations, and the figures are similar for much
of the English-speaking world. Although, the proportion
of translated books published in many other countries is a lot higher. 4.5 percent is tiny enough to start with, but what that figure doesn't tell you is that many of those books
will come from countries with strong publishing networks and lots of industry professionals
primed to go out and sell those titles to English-language publishers. So, for example, although well over 100
books are translated from French and published in the UK each year, most of them will come from countries
like France or Switzerland. French-speaking Africa, on the other hand, will rarely ever get a look-in. The upshot is that there are
actually quite a lot of nations that may have little or even no
commercially available literature in English. Their books remain invisible to readers of the world's most published language. But when it came to reading the world, the biggest challenge of all for me was that fact that I didn't
know where to start. Having spent my life reading
almost exclusively British and North American books, I had no idea how to go about
sourcing and finding stories and choosing them from much
of the rest of the world. I couldn't tell you how to source
a story from Swaziland. I wouldn't know a good novel from Namibia. There was no hiding it -- I was a clueless literary xenophobe. So how on earth was I
going to read the world? I was going to have to ask for help. So in October 2011, I registered my blog, ayearofreadingtheworld.com, and I posted a short appeal online. I explained who I was, how narrow my reading had been, and I asked anyone who cared to to leave a message suggesting
what I might read from other parts of the planet. Now, I had no idea whether
anyone would be interested, but within a few hours
of me posting that appeal online, people started to get in touch. At first, it was friends and colleagues. Then it was friends of friends. And pretty soon, it was strangers. Four days after I put that appeal online, I got a message from a woman
called Rafidah in Kuala Lumpur. She said she loved
the sound of my project, could she go to her local
English-language bookshop and choose my Malaysian book
and post it to me? I accepted enthusiastically, and a few weeks later, a package arrived containing
not one, but two books -- Rafidah's choice from Malaysia, and a book from Singapore
that she had also picked out for me. Now, at the time, I was amazed that a stranger more than 6,000 miles away would go to such lengths to help someone she would probably never meet. But Rafidah's kindness proved
to be the pattern for that year. Time and again, people went
out of their way to help me. Some took on research on my behalf, and others made detours
on holidays and business trips to go to bookshops for me. It turns out, if you want
to read the world, if you want to encounter it
with an open mind, the world will help you. When it came to countries with little or no commercially
available literature in English, people went further still. Books often came from surprising sources. My Panamanian read, for example,
came through a conversation I had with the Panama Canal on Twitter. Yes, the Panama Canal
has a Twitter account. And when I tweeted at it about my project, it suggested that I might like to try
and get hold of the work of the Panamanian author
Juan David Morgan. I found Morgan's website
and I sent him a message, asking if any of his
Spanish-language novels had been translated into English. And he said that nothing
had been published, but he did have an unpublished translation of his novel "The Golden Horse." He emailed this to me, allowing me to become
one of the first people ever to read that book in English. Morgan was by no means the only wordsmith to share his work with me in this way. From Sweden to Palau, writers and translators
sent me self-published books and unpublished manuscripts of books that hadn't been picked
up by Anglophone publishers or that were no longer available, giving me privileged glimpses
of some remarkable imaginary worlds. I read, for example, about the Southern African king
Ngungunhane, who led the resistance against the Portuguese
in the 19th century; and about marriage rituals
in a remote village on the shores of the Caspian sea
in Turkmenistan. I met Kuwait's answer to Bridget Jones. (Laughter) And I read about an orgy
in a tree in Angola. But perhaps the most amazing example of the lengths that people
were prepared to go to to help me read the world, came towards the end of my quest, when I tried to get hold of a book
from the tiny, Portuguese-speaking 