There's a big question
at the center of life in our democracies today: How do we fight terror
without destroying democracies, without trampling human rights? I've spent much of my career
working with journalists, with bloggers, with activists, with human rights researchers
all around the world, and I've come to the conclusion that if our democratic societies
do not double down on protecting and defending human rights, freedom of the press and a free and open internet, radical extremist ideologies
are much more likely to persist. (Applause) OK, all done. Thank you very much. No, just joking. (Laughter) I actually want to drill down
on this a little bit. So, one of the countries that has been
on the frontlines of this issue is Tunisia, which was the only country
to come out of the Arab Spring with a successful democratic revolution. Five years later, they're struggling
with serious terror attacks and rampant ISIS recruitment. And many Tunisians
are calling on their government to do whatever it takes to keep them safe. Tunisian cartoonist Nadia Khiari has summed up the situation
with this character who says, "I don't give a damn about human rights. I don't give a damn about the revolution. I don't give a damn
about democracy and liberty. I just want to be safe." "Satisfied?" asked his jailer. "You're safe now." If the Tunisian people can figure out how to deal with their terrorism problem without ending up in this place, they will be a model
not only for their region, but for all of us. The reality is that civil society,
journalists and activists are coming under attack
from extremist groups on the one hand, and, in many countries, also from their own governments. We're seeing bloggers
and journalists being jailed, charged and intimidated by their own governments, many of which are allies
with the West in the war on terror. Just three examples. A friend and former colleague of mine, Hisham Almiraat, has been charged
with threatening state security, along with six other activists in Morocco. The Saudi blogger Raif Badawi
has been jailed and flogged for insulting Islam and criticizing
the Saudi regime on his blog. More recently, the Turkish representative
for Reporters Without Borders, 