Where do you come from? It's such a simple question, but these days, of course,
simple questions bring ever more complicated answers. People are always asking
me where I come from, and they're expecting me to say India, and they're absolutely right
insofar as 100 percent of my blood and ancestry
does come from India. Except, I've never lived
one day of my life there. I can't speak even one word of its more than 22,000 dialects. So I don't think I've really
earned the right to call myself an Indian. And if "Where do you come from?" means "Where were you born
and raised and educated?" then I'm entirely
of that funny little country known as England, except I left England
as soon as I completed my undergraduate education, and all the time I was growing up, I was the only kid in all my classes who didn't begin to look
like the classic English heroes represented in our textbooks. And if "Where do you come from?" means "Where do you pay your taxes? Where do you see your doctor
and your dentist?" then I'm very much of the United States, and I have been for 48 years now, since I was a really small child. Except, for many of those years, I've had to carry around this
funny little pink card with green lines running through my face identifying me as a permanent alien. I do actually feel more alien
the longer I live there. (Laughter) And if "Where do you come from?" means "Which place goes deepest inside you and where do you try
to spend most of your time?" then I'm Japanese, because I've been living as much as I can for the last 25 years in Japan. Except, all of those years
I've been there on a tourist visa, and I'm fairly sure not many Japanese would want to consider me one of them. And I say all this just to stress how very old-fashioned and straightforward my background is, because when I go to Hong
Kong or Sydney or Vancouver, most of the kids I meet are much more international
and multi-cultured than I am. And they have one home
associated with their parents, but another associated
with their partners, a third connected maybe with the place
where they happen to be, a fourth connected with the place
they dream of being, and many more besides. And their whole life will be
spent taking pieces of many different places
and putting them together into a stained glass whole. Home for them is really
a work in progress. It's like a project
on which they're constantly adding upgrades and improvements and corrections. And for more and more of us, home has really less to do
with a piece of soil than, you could say, with a piece of soul. If somebody suddenly asks
me, "Where's your home?" I think about my sweetheart
or my closest friends or the songs that travel with me
wherever I happen to be. And I'd always felt this way, but it really came home to me, as it were, some years ago when
I was climbing up the stairs in my parents' house in California, and I looked through the living
room windows and I saw that we were
encircled by 70-foot flames, one of those wildfires
that regularly tear through the hills of California
and many other such places. And three hours later,
that fire had reduced my home and every last thing in it except for me to ash. And when I woke up the next morning, I was sleeping on a friend's floor, the only thing I had
in the world was a toothbrush I had just bought
from an all-night supermarket. Of course, if anybody asked me then, "Where is your home?" I literally couldn't point
to any physical construction. My home would have to be whatever
I carried around inside me. And in so many ways, I think
this is a terrific liberation. Because when my grandparents were born, they pretty much had their sense of home, their sense of community,
even their sense of enmity, assigned to them at birth, and didn't have much chance
of stepping outside of that. And nowadays, at least some of us
can choose our sense of home, create our sense of community, fashion our sense of self, and in so doing maybe step a little beyond some of the black and white divisions of our grandparents' age. No coincidence that the president of the strongest nation
on Earth is half-Kenyan, partly raised in Indonesia, has a Chinese-Canadian brother-in-law. The number of people living
in countries not their own now comes to 220 million, and that's an almost unimaginable number, but it means that if you took
the whole population of Canada and the whole population of Australia and then the whole population
of Australia again and the whole population of Canada again and doubled that number, you would still have
fewer people than belong to this great floating tribe. And the number of us who live outside the old nation-state categories
is increasing so quickly, by 64 million just in the last 12 years, that soon there will be more
of us than there are Americans. Already, we represent
the fifth-largest nation on Earth. And in fact, in Canada's largest
city, Toronto, the average resident today
is what used to be called a foreigner, somebody born
in a very different country. And I've always felt that the beauty
of being surrounded by the foreign is that it slaps you awake. You can't take anything for granted. Travel, for me, is a little bit
like being in love, because suddenly all your senses
are at the setting marked "on." Suddenly you're alert to the secret
patterns of the world. The real voyage of discovery,
as Marcel Proust famously said, consists not in seeing new sights, but in looking with new eyes. And of course, once you have new eyes, even the old sights, even your home become something different. Many of the people living
in countries not their own are refugees who never
wanted to leave home and ache to go back home. But for the fortunate among us, I think the age of movement brings
exhilarating new possibilities. Certainly when I'm traveling, especially to the major
cities of the world, the typical person I meet today will be, let's say, a half-Korean,
half-German young woman living in Paris. And as soon as she meets a half-Thai, half-Canadian young guy from Edinburgh, she recognizes him as kin. She realizes that she probably
has much more in common with him than with anybody entirely
of Korea or entirely of Germany. So they become friends. They fall in love. They move to New York City. (Laughter) Or Edinburgh. And the little girl
who arises out of their union will of course be not Korean or German or French or Thai or Scotch or Canadian or even American, but a wonderful and constantly evolving
mix of all those places. And potentially, everything about the way that young woman dreams about the world, writes about the world,
thinks about the world, could be something different, because it comes out of this
almost unprecedented blend of cultures. Where you come from now
is much less important than where you're going. More and more of us
are rooted in the future or the present tense
as much as in the past. And home, we know, is not just the place where you happen to be born. It's the place where you become yourself. And yet, there is one great problem with movement, and that is that it's really
hard to get your bearings when you're in midair. Some years ago, I noticed
that I had accumulated one million miles
on United Airlines alone. You all know that crazy system, six days in hell, you get
the seventh day free. (Laughter) And I began to think that really, movement was only as good
as the sense of stillness that you could bring to it
to put it into perspective. And eight months
after my house burned down, I ran into a friend who taught
at a local high school, and he said, "I've got
the perfect place for you." "Really?" I said. I'm
always a bit skeptical when people say things like that. "No, honestly," he went on, "it's only three hours away by car, and it's not very expensive, and it's probably not like anywhere
you've stayed before." "Hmm." I was beginning to get
slightly intrigued. "What is it?" 