Gayle King: Have a seat, Serena Williams, or should we say, have a seat, mom. (Cheers) So no doubt, you guys are like me. You saw the release of Serena in that great yellow
bathing suit last week and when I saw it,
all I could think of was, "Gosh, why couldn't she have waited
til we sat onstage for TED?" I was very selfish, I know. So I asked you about that picture, and you said nobody was
supposed to see that picture. What do you mean? Serena Williams: Well,
actually, it was an accident. I was on vacation,
just taking some time for myself, and I have this thing
where I've been checking my status and taking pictures every week
to see how far along I'm going -- GK: And sharing it with friends, maybe? SW: No, actually
I have just been saving it, and I didn't really tell a lot of people, to be quite honest, and I'd been saving it, and you know how social media is,
you press the wrong button and -- (Laughter) GK: And there it was. SW: So 30 minutes later --
my phone doesn't ring that much -- and 30 minutes later,
I missed like four calls, and I'm like, that's weird, and then I picked it up
and I was like, oh no. But it was a good moment. I was gonna wait literally
just five or six more days -- that's OK. GK: I know, because it was weird,
Serena, because it only said 20 weeks, so it's not like there was
a whole lot of information on it. SW: Exactly, so that's
what I've been doing all this time. I've been just tracking it. 18, 19 -- every week
I'd just take a picture and save it, and I've been so good about it, and this was the one time that I slipped. GK: There you go. Well, congratulations. SW: Yes, thank you. GK: It really is OK.
When you heard the news, were you excited?
Were you afraid? Were you worried? That you were pregnant, I mean. SW: So I heard it two days before
the beginning of the Australian Open, which is one of the biggest grand slams. GK: You found out two days before? SW: Yeah, so it was
two days before, and I knew. I was nervous. I wasn't quite sure what to think, but I just knew that at that moment it was really important for me
to just focus right there at the Australian Open, and I was definitely not sure what to do. I was like, can I play? I know it's very dangerous, maybe,
sometimes in the first 12 weeks or so, so I had a lot of questions. GK: But not only did you play,
Ms. Williams, you won. (Cheers) SW: Yeah. May I just say, 23 grand slams to you. SW: Thank you. (Applause) GK: While pregnant! SW: Well, I was looking
for another handicap, so ... no. GK: Did you play differently that game,
knowing you were pregnant? SW: I did. It wasn't very easy. You hear all these stories
about people when they're pregnant, they get sick and they get tired. GK: Have you had morning sickness? SW: No, I've been so fortunate
and so I haven't. But they get really tired
and they get really stressed out, and I had to really take all that energy, put it in a paper bag, so to say, and throw it away, because I really felt
like I didn't have time to deal with any extra emotions,
any extra anything, because pregnant or not, no one knew, and I was supposed to win that tournament as I am every tournament that I show up. I am expected to win, and if I don't win,
it's actually much bigger news. GK: Yeah, when you don't win,
that's a big story. SW: Yes, so for me,
I had to really take anything negative and any emotions
that I was feeling at that point and kind of just bottle them up and really figure out
what the next step for me to do was. GK: You have a lot of support.
You have a lot of love. Even when I was coming here,
people stopped me at the airport. I was saying to the flight attendant,
the pilot, "Guess where I'm going?" They said, "Oh my God,
we're so glad she's pregnant." But then you always have
these cranky Yankees. On the way over here, somebody
was telling me about Ilie Nastase, who said some very unkind, inappropriate,
dare I say racial things. You have responded to him. I'm not even going
to dignify what he said, but you responded. Why did you respond? SW: Well, I think there are
very inappropriate comments, and not only that, I've been
really supportive of my peers and the people that I've worked with. I've been a pro for almost 20 years, and so for me, it's really important
to hold women up, and it's something that these young women, they'll come to the locker room,
they'll want to take pictures with me, and for me, it's just like, I want to be able to be a good leader
and a good example for them. So not only -- (Applause) Not only did he have rude things
to say about me and my peers, I felt it was important
for us to stand up for each other and to stand up for myself. And at that point it was
really important for me to say, like, I'm not afraid,
I'm not going anywhere, but this is inappropriate, and there's time and there's
a place for everything. And that really
wasn't the time and the place. GK: We cut the part where you said
you're not going anywhere, because you'll be 36 in September.
Baby's coming, 36. And your coach said
age is always important, but in tennis it's very important, but he has no doubt
that you're coming back. Have you thought, am I coming back? Will I take some time off? I know the women on the tour are saying, "How long does it take to have a baby?
Two years will she be gone?" What are you thinking? SW: Well, I'm always trying
to defy the odds, you know, so for me everything is really mental. I definitely plan on coming back.
I'm not done yet. I'm really inspired by my sister. She's a year older than me,
and that's something that -- if she's still playing, I know I can play. (Laughter) And there's so many -- Roger Federer,
he's a little bit older than me and he's still winning everything,
so I'm like, I know I can do that too. So that's been so inspiring to me,
especially recently, and I know that
it's something I want to do. And my story is definitely not over yet. I was talking to my coach about it, and we were talking about
how this is just a new part of my life, and my baby's going to be in the stands and hopefully cheering for me,
not crying too much. GK: No, you wrote a beautiful
letter to your baby yesterday that you said -- from the oldest mommy
to the youngest one, to the oldest, to the youngest,
I can't wait for you to get here. A lot of people feel that. I saw you about a year ago,
because I think about your life, Serena. You've had three life-changing things
in a six-month time: pregnant, huge win, fell in love. And when I saw you last year, I was saying, "How's
your love life? Da da da." You said, "I met a guy.
He's a nerdy, kinda geeky guy. You won't know who he is." I said, "What's his name?" SW: I remember talking
to you about that, yes. GK: And you said, "Alexis Ohanian."
I said, "I know him!" He's awesome. But I would never put you
with a nerdy geek, and you said, you neither. SW: I'm going to be honest
with you, I didn't either, but it's been the best thing for me. GK: The best thing why? Does that look like a nerdy geek? Look at the shirt. (Laughter) No, he's a very nice guy. SW: You can tell he's into technology. GK: He's a very, very nice guy. I like him very much. So how did he succeed
when others have failed? How was he the one that you knew,
this is the one for me? SW: Well, I'm not going to say that, but ... (Laughter) GK: Say it, Serena, say it! SW: Well ... (Laughter) Yes. (Applause) GK: But you know what I mean. SW: He is very loving and he's very kind,
and my mom says he's very considerate, and when she said that to me, I was like, you know, he really is, and it's the little things that really
make a huge difference in life. GK: Like? SW: Something simple. My fashion company,
we have a show every year, so in our show last year,
I was running around like crazy, because I do everything for the show, and everything for it, so I was running around like crazy, and he, it was a simple gesture
of this shirt that he had, and he just wanted to make sure
that I had the same one, and it was -- it's a weird story. It was better in person, I promise. GK: Was it a wonderful proposal? 