This is an ambucycle. This is the fastest way
to reach any medical emergency. It has everything an ambulance
has except for a bed. You see the defibrillator.
You see the equipment. We all saw the tragedy
that happened in Boston. When I was looking at these pictures, it brought me back many years to my past when I was a child. I grew up in a small
neighborhood in Jerusalem. When I was six years old,
I was walking back from school on a Friday afternoon
with my older brother. We were passing by a bus stop. We saw a bus blow up in front of our eyes. The bus was on fire, and many people
were hurt and killed. I remembered an old man yelling to us and crying
to help us get him up. He just needed someone helping him. We were so scared and we just ran away. Growing up, I decided I wanted
to become a doctor and save lives. Maybe that was because of what I saw
when I was a child. When I was 15, I took an EMT course, and I went to volunteer on an ambulance. For two years, I volunteered
on an ambulance in Jerusalem. I helped many people, but whenever someone really needed help, I never got there in time.
We never got there. The traffic is so bad. The
distance, and everything. We never got there when
somebody really needed us. One day, we received a call
about a seven-year-old child choking from a hot dog. Traffic was horrific,
and we were coming from the other side of town
in the north part of Jerusalem. When we got there, 20 minutes later, we started CPR on the kid. A doctor comes in from a block away, stop us, checks the kid,
and tells us to stop CPR. That second he declared this child dead. At that moment, I understood that this child died for nothing. If this doctor, who lived
one block away from there, would have come 20 minutes earlier, not have to wait
until that siren he heard before coming from the ambulance, if he would have heard
about it way before, he would have saved this child. He could have run from a block away. He could have saved this child. I said to myself, there
must be a better way. Together with 15 of my friends -- 