I took a cell phone and accidentally made myself famous. (Laughter) I was just talking
about the things that I cared about, but with the click of a button and an incendiary viral video I propelled myself into overnight stardom. When I say overnight, I mean I literally woke up
the next morning with so many notifications on my phone, I thought I slept
through a national tragedy. (Laughter) It was the craziest thing, guys, but when it came to my influence
and my exposure, I literally took a quantum leap. So I made more videos and the subject matter of my videos was often the most divisive subject
in American life, but it was the way that I articulated race that made me somewhat
of a digital lightning rod. See, being a survivor myself
of police brutality and having lost a childhood friend, Alonzo Ashley, at the hands of the police, I had a little something
to say about the topic. You see, this was at the height
of the Black Lives Matter furor and people seemed to be turning
to me to articulate their viewpoints, and honestly, it was sort of overwhelming. You see, the internet
has this interesting quality. In one way, it totally
brought the world together, and I remember being a kid and all of this utopian propaganda
was being dumped on us about how the World Wide Web was going to span the reaches
of people across the globe. But as it turns out, people are people. (Laughter) And this magical superhighway also took the demons of our nature and gave them Ferraris. (Laughter) You see, technology, y'all,
is a lot like money. It just brings out what's already
inside you and amplifies it. And so I soon became familiar
with the phenomenon of the internet troll. These guys seem to live
beneath the bridges of said superhighway -- (Laughter) And they also missed the memo about
the enlightenment of the internet age. I remember being called highly colorful racial slurs by those who use
the anonymity of the internet as a Klan hood. And some of them
were pretty creative, actually, but others were pretty wounding, especially navigating
the post-traumatic world of a police brutality survivor in the height of Black Lives Matter, with all of these people
being killed on my timeline. To these trolls, I wasn't a human. I was an idea, an object, a caricature. Did I mention that this race stuff
can be kind of divisive? You see, I'm an innately curious person and as I drew my sword to engage
in epic battles in the comment section -- (Laughter) I also began to notice that a few of my trolls
actually had brains, which made me even more curious
and what to understand them even further. And although these supposed morons engaged in what appeared
to be original thought, I said to myself, "Um, these guys are highly misinformed, at least according to my knowledge." Where are these guys
getting these arguments from? Like, was there some kind
of alternative universe with alternative facts? (Laughter) (Applause) Was history and gravity
optional over there? I don't know. But I needed to know.
Like, I wanted to know. And as it turns out, I had no idea
about digital echo chambers. That same target marketing algorithm that feeds you more
of the products you like to buy also feeds you more
of the news that you like to hear. I had been living in an online universe that just reflected
my worldview back to me. So my timeline was pretty liberal. I had no Breitbart
or Infowars or Fox News. No, no, I was all MSNBC
and The Daily Show, CNN and theGrio, right? Well, these trolls were hopping
the dimensional doorway and I needed to figure out how. (Laughter) So what I decided to do was trick the Facebook algorithm into feeding me more news
that I didn't necessarily agree with, and this worked fine for a while,
but it wasn't enough, because my online footprint already established the patterns
that I like to hear. So with the anonymity of the internet, I went undercover. (Laughter) I set up this ghost profile
and went crazy. Now, on a practical level,
it was very simple, but on an emotional level,
it was kind of daunting, especially with the racist vitriol
that I had experienced. But what I didn't realize
is that my trolls were inoculating me, thickening my skin, making me immune to viewpoints
that I didn't necessarily agree with, and so I didn't react to the same things
as I would have several months prior. All right? So I pressed on. Noticing that this stuff
also worked on YouTube, I became Lucius25,
white supremacist lurker -- (Laughter) And digitally I began to infiltrate
the infamous alt-right movement. 