I do want to test this question
we're all interested in: Does extinction have to be forever? I'm focused on two projects
I want to tell you about. One is the Thylacine Project. The other one is the Lazarus Project, and that's focused
on the gastric-brooding frog. And it would be a fair question to ask, why have we focused on these two animals? Well, point number one, each of them
represents a unique family of its own. We've lost a whole family. That's a big chunk
of the global genome gone. I'd like it back. The second reason
is that we killed these things. In the case of the thylacine, regrettably,
we shot every one that we saw. We slaughtered them. In the case of the gastric-brooding frog,
we may have "fungicided" it to death. There's a dreadful fungus
that's moving through the world that's called the chytrid fungus, and it's nailing frogs all over the world. We think that's probably
what got this frog, and humans are spreading this fungus. And this introduces
a very important ethical point, and I think you will have heard
this many times when this topic comes up. What I think is important is that, if it's clear
that we exterminated these species, then I think we not only
have a moral obligation to see what we can do about it, but I think we've got a moral imperative
to try to do something, if we can. OK. Let me talk to you
about the Lazarus Project. It's a frog. And you think, frog. Yeah, but this was not just any frog. Unlike a normal frog,
which lays its eggs in the water and goes away
and wishes its froglets well, this frog swallowed its fertilized eggs, swallowed them into the stomach,
where it should be having food, didn't digest the eggs,
and turned its stomach into a uterus. In the stomach, the eggs
went on to develop into tadpoles, and in the stomach, the tadpoles
went on to develop into frogs, and they grew in the stomach until eventually the poor old frog
was at risk of bursting apart. It has a little cough and a hiccup,
and out comes sprays of little frogs. Now, when biologists saw this,
they were agog. They thought, this is incredible. No animal, let alone a frog,
has been known to do this, to change one organ
in the body into another. And you can imagine the medical world
went nuts over this as well. If we could understand how that frog is managing
the way its tummy works, is there information here
that we need to understand or could usefully use to help ourselves? Now, I'm not suggesting we want
to raise our babies in our stomach, but I am suggesting it's possible we might want to manage
gastric secretion in the gut. And just as everybody
got excited about it, bang! It was extinct. I called up my friend, Professor Mike Tyler
in the University of Adelaide. He was the last person who had this frog,
a colony of these things, in his lab. And I said, "Mike, by any chance --"
This was 30 or 40 years ago. "By any chance had you kept
any frozen tissue of this frog?" And he thought about it, and he went to his deep freezer,
minus 20 degrees centigrade, and he poured through
everything in the freezer, and there in the bottom was a jar
and it contained tissues of these frogs. This was very exciting, but there was no reason
why we should expect that this would work, because this tissue
had not had any antifreeze put in it, cryoprotectants, to look after it
when it was frozen. And normally, when water freezes,
as you know, it expands, and the same thing happens in a cell. If you freeze tissues, the water expands,
damages or bursts the cell walls. Well, we looked at the tissue
under the microscope. It actually didn't look bad.
The cell walls looked intact. So we thought, let's give it a go. What we did is something called
somatic cell nuclear transplantation. We took the eggs
of a related species, a living frog, and we inactivated the nucleus of the egg. We used ultraviolet radiation to do that. And then we took the dead nucleus
from the dead tissue of the extinct frog and we inserted those nuclei
into that egg. Now, by rights, this is
kind of like a cloning project, like what produced Dolly, but it's actually very different, because Dolly was live sheep
into live sheep cells. That was a miracle, but it was workable. What we're trying to do is take
a dead nucleus from an extinct species and put it into a completely different
species and expect that to work. Well, we had no real reason
to expect it would, and we tried hundreds
and hundreds of these. And just last February,
the last time we did these trials, I saw a miracle starting to happen. What we found was
most of these eggs didn't work, but then suddenly,
one of them began to divide. That was so exciting. And then the egg divided again.
And then again. And pretty soon,
we had early-stage embryos with hundreds of cells forming those. We even DNA-tested some of these cells, and the DNA of the extinct frog
is in those cells. So we're very excited.
This is not a tadpole. It's not a frog. But it's a long way along the journey to producing, or bringing back,
an extinct species. And this is news. We haven't announced this publicly before. We're excited. We've got to get past this point. We now want this ball of cells
to start to gastrulate, to turn in so that it will produce
the other tissues. It'll go on and produce
a tadpole and then a frog. Watch this space. I think we're going to have
this frog hopping glad to be back in the world again. (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) We haven't done it yet,
but keep the applause ready. The second project I want to talk
to you about is the Thylacine Project. The thylacine looks a bit,
to most people, like a dog, or maybe like a tiger,
because it has stripes. But it's not related to any of those.
It's a marsupial. It raised its young in a pouch,
like a koala or a kangaroo would do, and it has a long history,
a long, fascinating history, that goes back 25 million years. But it's also a tragic history. The first one that we see occurs
in the ancient rain forests of Australia about 25 million years ago, and the National Geographic Society is helping us to explore
these fossil deposits. This is Riversleigh. In those fossil rocks
are some amazing animals. We found marsupial lions. We found carnivorous kangaroos. It's not what you usually
think about as a kangaroo, but these are meat-eating kangaroos. We found the biggest bird in the world, bigger than that thing
that was in Madagascar, and it too was a flesh eater. It was a giant, weird duck. And crocodiles were not behaving
at that time either. You think of crocodiles
as doing their ugly thing, sitting in a pool of water. These crocodiles
were actually out on the land and they were even climbing trees
and jumping on prey on the ground. We had, in Australia, drop crocs.
They really do exist. (Laughter) But what they were dropping on
was not only other weird animals but also thylacines. There were five different kinds
of thylacines in those ancient forests, and they ranged from great big ones
to middle-sized ones to one that was
about the size of a chihuahua. Paris Hilton would have been able to carry one of these things around
in a little handbag, until a drop croc landed on her. At any rate, it was a fascinating place, but unfortunately,
Australia didn't stay this way. Climate change has affected the world
for a long period of time, and gradually, the forests disappeared,
the country began to dry out, and the number of kinds
of thylacines began to decline, until by five million years ago, only one left. By 10,000 years ago,
they had disappeared from New Guinea, and unfortunately, by 4,000 years ago,
somebodies, we don't know who this was, 