Some people are obsessed
by French wines. Others love playing golf or devouring literature. One of my greatest pleasures
in life is, I have to admit, a bit special. I cannot tell you how much I enjoy
watching cities from the sky, from an airplane window. Some cities are calmly industrious, like Dusseldorf or Louisville. Others project an energy
that they can hardly contain, like New York or Hong Kong. And then you have Paris or Istanbul, and their patina full of history. I see cities as living beings. And when I discover them from far above, I like to find those main streets
and highways that structure their space. Especially at night, when commuters make these arteries
look dramatically red and golden: the city's vascular system
performing its vital function right before your eyes. But when I'm sitting in my car after an hour and a half
of commute every day, that reality looks very different. (Laughter) Nothing -- not public radio, no podcast -- (Laughter) Not even mindfulness meditation makes this time worth living. (Laughter) Isn't it absurd that we created cars
that can reach 130 miles per hour and we now drive them at the same speed
as 19th-century horse carriages? (Laughter) In the US alone, we spent 29.6 billion hours
commuting in 2014. With that amount of time, ancient Egyptians could have built
26 Pyramids of Giza. (Laughter) We do that in one year. A monumental waste of time,
energy and human potential. For decades, our remedy for congestion was simple: build new roads or enlarge existing ones. And it worked. It worked admirably for Paris, when the city tore down
hundreds of historical buildings to create 85 miles of transportation-friendly boulevards. And it still works today
in fast-growing emerging cities. But in more established urban centers, significant network expansions
are almost impossible: habitat is just too dense, real estate, too expensive and public finances, too fragile. Our city's vascular system
is getting clogged, it's getting sick, and we should pay attention. Our current way
of thinking is not working. For our transportation to flow, we need a new source of inspiration. So after 16 years
working in transportation, my "aha moment" happened
when speaking with a biotech customer. She was telling me how her treatment was leveraging specific properties
of our vascular system. "Wow," I thought, "Our vascular system -- all the veins and arteries in our body making miracles of logistics every day." This is the moment I realized that biology has been
in the transportation business for billions of years. It has been testing countless solutions to move nutrients, gases and proteins. It really is the world's most
sophisticated transportation laboratory. So, what if the solution to our traffic
challenges was inside us? I wanted to know: Why is it that blood flows
in our veins most of our lives, when our big cities get clogged
on a daily basis? And the reality is that you're looking
at two very different networks. I don't know if you realize, but each of us has 60,000 miles
of blood vessels in our bodies -- 60,000 miles. That's two-and-a-half times
the Earth's circumference, inside you. What it means is that blood vessels
are everywhere inside us, not just under the surface of our skin. But if you look at our cities, yes, we have some
underground subway systems and some tunnels and bridges, and also some helicopters in the sky. But the vast majority of our traffic
is focused on the ground, on the surface. So in other words, while our vascular system uses
the three dimensions inside us, our urban transportation
is mostly two-dimensional. And so what we need
is to embrace that verticality. If our surface grid is saturated, well, let's elevate our traffic. This Chinese concept of a bus
that can straddle traffic jams -- that was an eye-opener on new ways
to think about space and movement inside our cities. And we can go higher, and suspend our transportation
like we did with our electrical grid. Tel Aviv and Abu Dhabi
are talking about testing these futuristic networks
of suspended magnetic pods. And we can keep climbing, and fly. The fact that a company like Airbus is now seriously working
on flying urban taxis is telling us something. 