Whenever I get to travel for work, I try to find out where my
drinking water comes from, and where my poop and pee go. (Laughter) This has earned me the nickname
"The Poo Princess" in my family, and it's ruined many family vacations,
because this is not normal. But thinking about where it all goes
is the first step in activating what are actually superpowers
in our poop and pee. (Laughter) Yeah. And if we use them well, we can live healthier
and more beautifully. Check out this landscape
in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Just notice what kinds of words
and feelings come to mind. This landscape was watered
with treated sewage water. Does that change anything for you? I imagine it might. And that's OK. How we feel about this is going to determine exactly
how innovative we can be. And I want to explain how it works, but what words do I use? I mean, I can use profane words
like "shit" and "piss," and then my grandma won't watch the video. Or I can use childish words
like "poo" and "pee." Eh. Or I can use scientific words
like "excrement" and "feces." Humph. I'll use a mix. (Laughter) It's all I got. (Laughs) So, in this suburb, the poo and the pee and the wash water
are going to this treatment plant right in the middle of the community. It looks more like a park
than a treatment plant. The poo at the very bottom
of all those layers of gravel -- not touching anyone -- is providing solid food
for those marsh plants. And the clean, clear water
that comes out the other end is traveling underground
to water each person's yard. So even though they're in a desert, they get their own personal oasis. This approach is called
Integrated Water Management, or holistic or closed-loop. Whatever you want to call it, it's in conflict with the status quo
of how we think about sanitation, which is contain, treat, push it away. But in this approach,
we're doing one step better. We're designing for reuse
from the very beginning, because everything does get reused, only now we're planning for it. And often, that makes for
really beautiful spaces. But the most important thing
about this system isn't the technicals of how it works. It's how you feel about it. Do you want this in your yard? Why not? I got really curious about this question. Why don't we see more
innovation in sanitation? Why isn't that kind of thing
the new normal? And I care so much about this question, that I work for a nonprofit called Recode. We want to accelerate adoption of sustainable building
and development practices. We want more innovation. But a lot of times,
whole categories of innovation -- ones that can help us
live more beautifully -- turn out to be illegal. Today's regulations and codes
were written under the assumption that best practices
would remain best practices, with incremental updates forever and ever. But innovation isn't always incremental. It turns out, how we feel
about any particular new technique gets into everything we do: how we talk about it, how we encourage people to study, our jokes, our codes ... And it ultimately determines
how innovative we can be. So, that's the first reason
we don't innovate in sanitation. We're kind of uncomfortable
talking about sanitation, that's why I've gotten called
"The Poo Princess" so much. The second reason is: we think the problem is solved
here in the US. But not so. Here in the US we still get sick
from drinking shit in our sewage water. Seven million people get sick every year, 900 die annually. And we're not taking a holistic
approach to making it better. So we're not solving it. Where I live in Portland, Oregon, I can't take Echo for a swim
during the rainy season, because we dump raw sewage
sometimes into our river. Our rainwater and our sewage
go to the same treatment plant. Too much rain overflows into the river. And Portland is not alone here. Forty percent of municipalities self-report dumping raw or partially treated
sewage into our waterways. The other bummer going on here
with our status quo is that half of all of your poop and pee
is going to fertilize farmland. The other half is being incinerated or land-filled. And that's a bummer to me, because there are amazing nutrients
in your daily doody. It is comparable to pig manure; we're omnivores, they're omnivores. Think of your poo and pee
as a health smoothie for a tree. (Laughter) The other bummer going on here is that we're quickly moving
all the drugs we take into our waterways. The average wastewater treatment plant
can remove maybe half of the drugs that come in. The other half goes
right out the other side. Consider what a cocktail
of pharmaceuticals -- hormones, steroids, Vicodin -- does to a fish, to a dog, to a child. But this isn't just some problem
that we need to contain. If we flip this around,
we can create a resource that can solve so many
of our other problems. And I want to get you
comfortable with this idea, so imagine the things I'm going
to show you, these technologies, and this attitude that says, "We're going to reuse this. Let's design to make it beautiful" -- as advanced potty training. (Laughter) I think you're ready for it. I think we as a culture are ready
for advanced potty training. And there are three great
reasons to enroll today. Number one: we can fertilize our food. Each one of us is pooping
and peeing something that could fertilize half
or maybe all of our food, depending on our diet. That dark brown poo in the toilet
is dark brown because of what? Dead stuff, bacteria. That's carbon. And carbon, if we're getting
that into the soil, is going to bind to the other minerals
and nutrients in there. Boom! Healthier food. 