As an Arab female photographer, I have always found ample inspiration
for my projects in personal experiences. The passion I developed for knowledge, which allowed me to break barriers
towards a better life was the motivation 
for my project I Read I Write. Pushed by my own experience, as I was not allowed initially
to pursue my higher education, I decided to explore and document
stories of other women who changed their lives through education, while exposing and questioning
the barriers they face. I covered a range of topics
that concern women's education, keeping in mind the differences
among Arab countries due to economic and social factors. These issues include female illiteracy,
which is quite high in the region; educational reforms;
programs for dropout students; and political activism
among university students. As I started this work, it was not always easy 
to convince the women to participate. Only after explaining to them how their stories
might influence other women's lives, how they would become role models
for their own community, did some agree. Seeking a collaborative
and reflexive approach, I asked them to write
their own words and ideas on prints of their own images. Those images were then shared
in some of the classrooms, and worked to inspire
and motivate other women going through similar educations 
and situations. Aisha, a teacher from Yemen, wrote, "I sought education in order
to be independent and to not count on men with everything." One of my first subjects
was Umm El-Saad from Egypt. When we first met, she was
barely able to write her name. She was attending
a nine-month literacy program run by a local NGO in the Cairo suburbs. Months later, she was joking
that her husband had threatened to pull her
out of the classes, as he found out that his now literate wife was going through his phone text messages. (Laughter) Naughty Umm El-Saad. Of course, that's not why
Umm El-Saad joined the program. I saw how she was longing to gain
control over her simple daily routines, small details that we take for granted, from counting money at the market
to helping her kids in homework. Despite her poverty
and her community's mindset, which belittles women's education, Umm El-Saad, along with
her Egyptian classmates, was eager to learn how to read and write. In Tunisia, I met Asma, one of the four activist women
I interviewed. The secular bioengineering student
is quite active on social media. Regarding her country, which treasured
what has been called the Arab Spring, she said, "I've always dreamt
of discovering a new bacteria. Now, after the revolution,
we have a new one every single day." Asma was referring to the rise
of religious fundamentalism in the region, which is another obstacle
to women in particular. Out of all the women I met,
Fayza from Yemen affected me the most. Fayza was forced to drop out of school
at the age of eight when she was married. That marriage lasted for a year. At 14, she became the third wife
of a 60-year-old man, and by the time she was 18,
she was a divorced mother of three. Despite her poverty, 