OK, so today I want to talk
about how we talk about love. And specifically, I want to talk about what's wrong
with how we talk about love. Most of us will probably
fall in love a few times over the course of our lives, and in the English language,
this metaphor, falling, is really the main way that we
talk about that experience. I don't know about you, but when I conceptualize this metaphor, what I picture is straight
out of a cartoon -- like there's a man, he's walking down the sidewalk, without realizing it, he crosses
over an open manhole, and he just plummets into the sewer below. And I picture it this way
because falling is not jumping. Falling is accidental, it's uncontrollable. It's something that happens to us
without our consent. And this -- this is the main way we talk
about starting a new relationship. I am a writer and I'm also
an English teacher, which means I think
about words for a living. You could say that I get paid
to argue that the language we use matters, and I would like to argue
that many of the metaphors we use to talk about love -- maybe even most of them -- are a problem. So, in love, we fall. We're struck. We are crushed. We swoon. We burn with passion. Love makes us crazy, and it makes us sick. Our hearts ache, and then they break. So our metaphors equate
the experience of loving someone to extreme violence or illness. (Laughter) They do. And they position us as the victims of unforeseen and totally
unavoidable circumstances. My favorite one of these is "smitten," which is the past participle
of the word "smite." And if you look this word up
in the dictionary -- (Laughter) you will see that it can be defined
as both "grievous affliction," and, "to be very much in love." I tend to associate the word "smite"
with a very particular context, which is the Old Testament. In the Book of Exodus alone,
there are 16 references to smiting, which is the word that the Bible uses
for the vengeance of an angry God. (Laughter) Here we are using the same word
to talk about love that we use to explain
a plague of locusts. (Laughter) Right? So, how did this happen? How have we come to associate love
with great pain and suffering? And why do we talk about
this ostensibly good experience as if we are victims? These are difficult questions, but I have some theories. And to think this through, I want to focus on one
metaphor in particular, which is the idea of love as madness. When I first started
researching romantic love, I found these madness
metaphors everywhere. The history of Western culture is full of language that equates
love to mental illness. These are just a few examples. William Shakespeare: "Love is merely a madness," from "As You Like It." Friedrich Nietzsche: "There is always some madness in love." "Got me looking, got me looking
so crazy in love -- " (Laughter) 