We lost a lot of time at school
learning spelling. Kids are still losing a lot of time
at school with spelling. That's why I want to share
a question with you: Do we need new spelling rules? I believe that yes, we do. Or even better, I think we need
to simplify the ones we already have. Neither the question nor the answer
are new in the Spanish language. They have been bouncing around
from century to century since 1492, when in the first grammar
guide of the Spanish language, Antonio de Nebrija, set a clear and simple
principle for our spelling: "... thus, we have to write words
as we pronounce them, and pronounce words as we write them." Each sound was to correspond
to one letter, each letter was to represent
a single sound, and those which did not represent
any sound should be removed. This approach, the phonetic approach, which says we have to write
words as we pronounce them, both is and isn't at the root of spelling
as we practice it today. It is, because the Spanish language,
in contrast to English, French or others, always strongly resisted
writing words too differently to how we pronounce them. But the phonetic approach
is also absent today, because when, in the 18th century,
we decided how we would standardize our writing, there was another approach which guided
a good part of the decisions. It was the etymological approach, the one that says we have to write words according to how they were written
in their original language, in Latin, in Greek. That's how we ended up with silent H's,
which we write but don't pronounce. That's how we have B's and V's that,
contrary to what many people believe, were never differentiated
in Spanish pronunciation. That's how we wound up with G's, that are sometimes aspirated,
as in "gente," and other times unaspirated, as in "gato." That's how we ended up
with C's, S's and Z's, three letters that in some places
correspond to one sound, and in others, to two,
but nowhere to three. I'm not here to tell you anything
you don't know from your own experience. We all went to school, we all invested big amounts
of learning time, big amounts of pliant,
childlike brain time in dictation, in the memorization of spelling rules
filled, nevertheless, with exceptions. We were told in many ways,
implicitly and explicitly, that in spelling, something fundamental
to our upbringing was at stake. Yet, I have the feeling that teachers didn't ask themselves
why it was so important. In fact, they didn't ask themselves
a previous question: What is the purpose of spelling? What do we need spelling for? And the truth is, when someone
asks themselves this question, the answer is much simpler
and less momentous than we'd usually believe. We use spelling to unify the way we write,
so we can all write the same way, making it easier for us to understand
when we read to each other. But unlike in other aspects of language
such as punctuation, in spelling, there's no
individual expression involved. In punctuation, there is. With punctuation, I can choose
to change the meaning of a phrase. With punctuation, I can impose
a particular rhythm to what I am writing, but not with spelling. When it comes to spelling,
it's either wrong or right, according to whether it conforms
or not to the current rules. But then, wouldn't it be more sensible
to simplify the current rules so it would be easier to teach, learn
and use spelling correctly? Wouldn't it be more sensible
to simplify the current rules so that all the time we devote today
to teaching spelling, we could devote to other language issues whose complexities do, in fact,
deserve the time and effort? What I propose is not to abolish spelling, and have everyone write however they want. Language is a tool of common usage, and so I believe it's fundamental
that we use it following common criteria. But I also find it fundamental that those common criteria
be as simple as possible, especially because
if we simplify our spelling, we're not leveling it down; when spelling is simplified, the quality of the language
doesn't suffer at all. I work every day with Spanish
Golden Age literature, 