Ten years ago, I had my first exhibition here. I had no idea if it would work
or was at all possible, but with a few small steps
and a very steep learning curve, I made my first sculpture,
called "The Lost Correspondent." Teaming up with a marine biologist
and a local dive center, I submerged the work
off the coast of Grenada, in an area decimated by Hurricane Ivan. And then this incredible thing happened. It transformed. One sculpture became two. Two quickly became 26. And before I knew it, we had the world's first
underwater sculpture park. In 2009, I moved to Mexico
and started by casting local fisherman. This grew to a small community, to almost an entire movement of people
in defense of the sea. And then finally, to an underwater museum, with over 500 living sculptures. Gardening, it seems,
is not just for greenhouses. We've since scaled up the designs: "Ocean Atlas," in the Bahamas,
rising 16 feet up to the surface and weighing over 40 tons, to now currently in Lanzarote, where I'm making
an underwater botanical garden, the first of its kind
in the Atlantic Ocean. Each project, we use materials
and designs that help encourage life; a long-lasting pH-neutral cement
provides a stable and permanent platform. It is textured to allow
coral polyps to attach. We position them down current
from natural reefs so that after spawning,
there's areas for them to settle. The formations are all configured
so that they aggregate fish on a really large scale. Even this VW Beetle
has an internal living habitat to encourage crustaceans
such as lobsters and sea urchins. So why exhibit my work in the ocean? Because honestly, it's really not easy. When you're in the middle of the sea
under a hundred-foot crane, trying to lower eight tons
down to the sea floor, you start to wonder whether I shouldn't
have taken up watercolor painting instead. (Laughter) But in the end, the results
always blow my mind. (Music) The ocean is the most
incredible exhibition space an artist could ever wish for. You have amazing lighting effects
changing by the hour, explosions of sand covering
the sculptures in a cloud of mystery, a unique timeless quality and the procession
of inquisitive visitors, each lending their own
special touch to the site. (Music) But over the years, I've realized that the greatest
thing about what we do, the really humbling thing about the work, is that as soon as we
submerge the sculptures, they're not ours anymore, because as soon as we sink them, the sculptures, they belong to the sea. As new reefs form, a new world
literally starts to evolve, a world that continuously amazes me. 