So in the oasis of 
intelligentsia that is TED, I stand here before you this evening as an expert in dragging heavy
stuff around cold places. I've been leading polar expeditions 
for most of my adult life, and last month, my teammate 
Tarka L'Herpiniere and I finished the most ambitious 
expedition I've ever attempted. In fact, it feels like I've been
transported straight here from four months in the middle of nowhere, mostly grunting and swearing, 
straight to the TED stage. So you can imagine that's a transition
that hasn't been entirely seamless. One of the interesting side effects seems to be that my short-term
memory is entirely shot. So I've had to write some notes to avoid too much grunting and swearing
in the next 17 minutes. This is the first talk I've given
about this expedition, and while we weren't sequencing genomes
or building space telescopes, this is a story about giving everything
we had to achieve something that hadn't been done before. So I hope in that you might 
find some food for thought. It was a journey, an 
expedition in Antarctica, the coldest, windiest, driest and
highest altitude continent on Earth. It's a fascinating place.
It's a huge place. It's twice the size of Australia, a continent that is the same size
as China and India put together. As an aside, I have experienced 
 an interesting phenomenon
in the last few days, something that I expect Chris Hadfield
may get at TED in a few years' time, conversations that go something like this: "Oh, Antarctica. Awesome. My husband and I did Antarctica
with Lindblad for our anniversary." Or, "Oh cool, did you go there
for the marathon?" (Laughter) Our journey was, in fact,
69 marathons back to back in 105 days, an 1,800-mile round trip
on foot from the coast of Antarctica to the South Pole and back again. In the process, we broke the record
 for the longest human-powered polar
journey in history by more than 400 miles. (Applause) For those of you from the Bay Area, it was the same as walking from 
here to San Francisco, then turning around
and walking back again. So as camping trips go, it was a long one, and one I've seen summarized 
most succinctly here on the hallowed pages 
of Business Insider Malaysia. ["Two Explorers Just Completed A Polar Expedition 
That Killed Everyone The Last Time It Was Attempted"] Chris Hadfield talked so eloquently about fear and about the odds of success,
and indeed the odds of survival. Of the nine people in history that had
attempted this journey before us, none had made it to the pole and back, and five had died in the process. This is Captain Robert Falcon Scott. He led the last team
to attempt this expedition. Scott and his rival Sir Ernest Shackleton, over the space of a decade, both led expeditions battling to become
the first to reach the South Pole, to chart and map
the interior of Antarctica, a place we knew less about, at the time, than the surface of the moon, because we could see
the moon through telescopes. Antarctica was, for the most part,
a century ago, uncharted. Some of you may know the story. Scott's last expedition, the 
Terra Nova Expedition in 1910, started as a giant
siege-style approach. He had a big team using ponies, using dogs, using petrol-driven tractors, dropping multiple, pre-positioned
depots of food and fuel through which Scott's final team of five
would travel to the Pole, where they would turn around and ski 
back to the coast again on foot. Scott and his final team of five arrived at the South Pole 
in January 1912 to find they had been beaten to it
by a Norwegian team led by Roald Amundsen, who rode on dogsled. Scott's team ended up on foot. And for more than a century
this journey has remained unfinished. Scott's team of five died 
on the return journey. And for the last decade, I've been asking myself why that is. How come this has remained 
the high-water mark? Scott's team covered 1,600 miles on foot. No one's come close to that ever since. So this is the high-water mark 
of human endurance, human endeavor, 
human athletic achievement in arguably the harshest climate on Earth. It was as if the marathon record has remained unbroken since 1912. And of course some strange and 
predictable combination of curiosity, stubbornness, and probably hubris led me to thinking I might be the man
to try to finish the job. Unlike Scott's expedition,
there were just two of us, and we set off from the coast
of Antarctica in October last year, dragging everything ourselves, a process Scott called "man-hauling." When I say it was like walking from
here to San Francisco and back, I actually mean it was like dragging
something that weighs a shade more than the heaviest ever NFL player. Our sledges weighed 200 kilos, or 440 pounds each at the start, the same weights that the weakest
of Scott's ponies pulled. Early on, we averaged 0.5 miles per hour. Perhaps the reason no one had 
attempted this journey until now, in more than a century, was that no one had been quite
stupid enough to try. And while I can't claim we were exploring 