I think I was supposed
to talk about my new book, which is called "Blink," and it's about snap judgments
and first impressions. And it comes out in January,
and I hope you all buy it in triplicate. (Laughter) But I was thinking about this, and I realized that although
my new book makes me happy, and I think would make my mother happy, it's not really about happiness. So I decided instead,
I would talk about someone who I think has done as much
to make Americans happy as perhaps anyone over the last 20 years, a man who is a great
personal hero of mine: someone by the name of Howard Moskowitz, who is most famous
for reinventing spaghetti sauce. Howard's about this high, and he's round, and he's in his 60s,
and he has big huge glasses and thinning gray hair, and he has a kind of wonderful
exuberance and vitality, and he has a parrot,
and he loves the opera, and he's a great aficionado
of medieval history. And by profession, he's a psychophysicist. Now, I should tell you that I have no idea
what psychophysics is, although at some point in my life, I dated a girl for two years who was getting
her doctorate in psychophysics. Which should tell you something
about that relationship. (Laughter) As far as I know, psychophysics
is about measuring things. And Howard is very interested
in measuring things. And he graduated
with his doctorate from Harvard, and he set up a little consulting shop
in White Plains, New York. And one of his first clients was Pepsi. This is many years ago,
back in the early 70s. And Pepsi came to Howard and they said, "You know, there's this new
thing called aspartame, and we would like to make Diet Pepsi. We'd like you to figure out how much aspartame we should put
in each can of Diet Pepsi in order to have the perfect drink." Now that sounds like an incredibly
straightforward question to answer, and that's what Howard thought. Because Pepsi told him, "We're working with a band
between eight and 12 percent. Anything below eight percent
sweetness is not sweet enough; anything above 12 percent
sweetness is too sweet. We want to know: what's the sweet
spot between 8 and 12?" Now, if I gave you this problem to do,
you would all say, it's very simple. What we do is you make up
a big experimental batch of Pepsi, at every degree of sweetness --
eight percent, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, all the way up to 12 -- and we try this out
with thousands of people, and we plot the results on a curve, and we take the most popular
concentration, right? Really simple. Howard does the experiment,
and he gets the data back, and he plots it on a curve, and all of a sudden he realizes
it's not a nice bell curve. In fact, the data doesn't make any sense. It's a mess. It's all over the place. Now, most people in that business,
in the world of testing food and such, are not dismayed
when the data comes back a mess. They think, "Well, you know, figuring out what people think
about cola's not that easy." "You know, maybe we made an error
somewhere along the way." "You know, let's just
make an educated guess," and they simply point
and they go for 10 percent, right in the middle. Howard is not so easily placated. Howard is a man of a certain degree
of intellectual standards. And this was not good enough for him, and this question bedeviled him for years. And he would think it through
and say, "What was wrong? Why could we not make sense
of this experiment with Diet Pepsi?" And one day, he was sitting
in a diner in White Plains, 