Hi. I want to talk about understanding,
and the nature of understanding, and what the essence of understanding is, because understanding is something
we aim for, everyone. We want to understand things. My claim is that understanding has to do with the ability to change
your perspective. If you don't have that,
you don't have understanding. So that is my claim. And I want to focus on mathematics. Many of us think of mathematics
as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, fractions, percent, geometry,
algebra -- all that stuff. But actually, I want to talk
about the essence of mathematics as well. And my claim is that mathematics
has to do with patterns. Behind me, you see a beautiful pattern, and this pattern actually emerges
just from drawing circles in a very particular way. So my day-to-day definition
of mathematics that I use every day is the following: First of all, it's about finding patterns. And by "pattern," I mean a connection,
a structure, some regularity, some rules that govern what we see. Second of all, I think it is about representing
these patterns with a language. We make up language if we don't have it, and in mathematics, this is essential. It's also about making assumptions and playing around with these assumptions
and just seeing what happens. We're going to do that very soon. And finally, it's about doing cool stuff. Mathematics enables us
to do so many things. So let's have a look at these patterns. If you want to tie a tie knot, there are patterns. Tie knots have names. And you can also do
the mathematics of tie knots. This is a left-out, right-in,
center-out and tie. This is a left-in, right-out,
left-in, center-out and tie. This is a language we made up
for the patterns of tie knots, and a half-Windsor is all that. This is a mathematics book
about tying shoelaces at the university level, because there are patterns in shoelaces. You can do it in so many different ways. We can analyze it. We can make up languages for it. And representations
are all over mathematics. This is Leibniz's notation from 1675. He invented a language
for patterns in nature. When we throw something up in the air, it falls down. Why? We're not sure, but we can represent
this with mathematics in a pattern. This is also a pattern. This is also an invented language. Can you guess for what? It is actually a notation system
for dancing, for tap dancing. That enables him as a choreographer
to do cool stuff, to do new things, because he has represented it. I want you to think about how amazing
representing something actually is. Here it says the word "mathematics." But actually, they're just dots, right? So how in the world can these dots
represent the word? Well, they do. They represent the word "mathematics," and these symbols also represent that word and this we can listen to. It sounds like this. (Beeps) Somehow these sounds represent
the word and the concept. How does this happen? There's something amazing
going on about representing stuff. So I want to talk about
that magic that happens when we actually represent something. Here you see just lines
with different widths. They stand for numbers
for a particular book. And I can actually recommend
this book, it's a very nice book. (Laughter) Just trust me. OK, so let's just do an experiment, just to play around
with some straight lines. This is a straight line. Let's make another one. So every time we move,
we move one down and one across, and we draw a new straight line, right? We do this over and over and over, and we look for patterns. So this pattern emerges, and it's a rather nice pattern. It looks like a curve, right? Just from drawing simple, straight lines. Now I can change my perspective
a little bit. I can rotate it. Have a look at the curve. What does it look like? Is it a part of a circle? It's actually not a part of a circle. So I have to continue my investigation
and look for the true pattern. Perhaps if I copy it and make some art? Well, no. Perhaps I should extend
the lines like this, and look for the pattern there. Let's make more lines. We do this. And then let's zoom out
and change our perspective again. Then we can actually see that
what started out as just straight lines is actually a curve called a parabola. This is represented by a simple equation, and it's a beautiful pattern. So this is the stuff that we do. We find patterns, and we represent them. And I think this is a nice
day-to-day definition. But today I want to go
a little bit deeper, and think about
what the nature of this is. What makes it possible? There's one thing
that's a little bit deeper, and that has to do with the ability
to change your perspective. And I claim that when
you change your perspective, and if you take another point of view, you learn something new
about what you are watching or looking at or hearing. And I think this is a really important
thing that we do all the time. So let's just look at
this simple equation, 