What was the most
difficult job you ever did? Was it working in the sun? Was it working to provide food
for a family or a community? Was it working days and nights
trying to protect lives and property? Was it working alone or working on a project
that wasn't guaranteed to succeed, but that might improve
human health or save a life? Was it working to build something,
create something, make a work of art? Was it work for which you were never sure you were fully understood or appreciated? The people in our communities
who do these jobs deserve our attention, our love
and our deepest support. But people aren't the only ones
in our communities who do these difficult jobs. These jobs are also done
by the plants, the animals and the ecosystems on our planet, including the ecosystems I study:
the tropical coral reefs. Coral reefs are farmers. They provide food, income
and food security for hundreds of millions
of people around the world. Coral reefs are security guards. The structures that they build
protect our shorelines from storm surge and waves, and the biological systems
that they house filter the water and make it safer for us to work and play. Coral reefs are chemists. The molecules that we're discovering
on coral reefs are increasingly important in the search for new antibiotics
and new cancer drugs. And coral reefs are artists. The structures that they build are some of the most
beautiful things on planet Earth. And this beauty is the foundation
of the tourism industry in many countries with few
or little other natural resources. So for all of these reasons,
all of these ecosystem services, economists estimate the value
of the world's coral reefs in the hundreds of billions
of dollars per year. And yet despite all that hard work
being done for us and all that wealth that we gain, we have done almost everything
we possibly could to destroy that. We have taken the fish out of the oceans and we have added in fertilizer, sewage, diseases, oil, pollution, sediments. We have trampled the reefs physically
with our boats, our fins, our bulldozers, and we have changed the chemistry
of the entire sea, warmed the waters and made storms worse. And these would all be bad on their own, but these threats magnify each other and compound one another
and make each other worse. I'll give you an example. 