Stephanie Busari: President Ameenah,
thank you for joining us. Even as TED speakers go,
you're something of an overachiever. Ameenah Gurib-Fakim: (Laughs) SB: You have a PhD in organic chemistry, you were vice chancellor
of the University of Mauritius, a successful entrepreneur, you've won numerous awards
for your work in science and you're the first Muslim
female head of state in Africa. (Applause) And of course, you're no stranger
to the TEDGlobal stage; you gave a talk in 2014. Did you have any political
ambitions at that time? How did you go from academic to president? AGF: OK, thanks, Stephanie. First of all, I'd like to thank TED for having given me
the opportunity to be here today. And I would also like to thank
the government of Tanzania and the president for the welcome. And also, I'd like to thank
the contribution of our consul, Mr. Rizvi, who's here, has been very supportive
for all our stay here. Now, to answer your question, did I have any ambitions in politics? The straight answer is no. I did not choose the world of politics; the world of politics chose me. So here I am. (Applause) SB: So, was there ever
anything in your journey that ever made you think that one day you would become
president of your country? Did you ever imagine that? AGF: Absolutely not. I think the journey started
immediately after TED, actually. When I went back,
this journalist called me and said, "You know, your name has been cited
for the president of the republic," I said, "Ma'am, you must be mistaken, because I have no ambition whatsoever." She said, "No, it's serious. Can you come and tell me this
in the form of a declaration? So, OK, you'll come?" So, of course, as good journalists go, the next day I see my TED picture and, with my name, Ameenah Gurib-Fakim, "For president?" A very small interrogation mark -- and people don't see
the interrogation mark, they just see my name
and they see my picture. And that was a sounding board. And again, as you have just said, it was a very interesting scenario because it was a scenario
where they wanted to have somebody who was credible, had this political neutrality and at the same time, was for a minority because Islam is a minority
religion in Mauritius, because in Mauritius,
we stratify people's origins by virtue of their religious belief. And -- I was a woman. So this made it all very interesting. So there we go, and this
whole campaign started, and then people said, "Why not?" Now, this is very important
to note, Stephanie, because normally, the president
is elected after the election. And here we had a scenario where the name of the president
was flagged before the election process, during the campaign. So when people voted,
they knew that at some point, they would have
this Muslim woman president. SB: Does it feel significant
to you as a woman to be the first female president
of your country? AGF: It's important for many reasons. I think, obviously, you just mentioned
the terrible statistics of two female presidents
in the whole of Africa. But more importantly, I think it's important also coming
from the background I come from -- by background I mean not ethnic,
but more academic and entrepreneurial -- to be there, to be that role model for that little girl
growing in my village to say, "Yes, it's possible." It's possible. (Applause) It's also important, Stephanie, while I talk about diversity -- diversity in the widest sense of the word. We've seen that whenever
there was diversity, whenever there was openness, whenever there was dialogue, this was the time when societies
have been most productive. When we talk about the Arab Golden Age, we cannot not think of Ibn Sina, al-Haytham, Averroes, Maimonides. This was a time
when cultures, religions -- they were talking to each other. They were at peace with each other. And this was a time
when they were highly productive. So I would say: bring down these walls. SB: Absolutely, absolutely. (Applause) AGF: Virtual or otherwise. SB: Let's also talk about
another conflict area which you straddle quite interestingly. As a woman of faith and also a scientist, you know, faith and science
seem to be at loggerheads. It wasn't always so, but I'm interested to get your thoughts
on how you reconcile both and how they coexist for you personally. AGF: They're not mutually exclusive. I mean, if you're a scientist, you tend to really look
at the perfection of the human body, the way it functions. If you look at nature as a whole. I'm still amazed at the perfection with which the entire
ecosystem functions together. However, to the purists,
to those who are of faith, they will tell you, "Yes,
there has been evolution." Even the Pope has agreed
that evolution exists. But there's always the question:
What came first? What came before this? When we talk about all
the various strata of evolution, we'll always be asking the question, there must be something before. So I'm of the opinion that yes, there is this great spiritual force
which is guiding the process, and things like this
don't happen by chance. Now, whether you call it religiosity, whether you call
this great spirit by any name -- Brahma, Allah, the Holy Trinity -- you name it -- but I still think that these two
are not mutually exclusive. They can still coexist with each other. SB: So let's move
to one of your passions -- science. You've made no secret of that. And you've always been
passionate about science. I read that when you were
a very young girl, you went to a career guidance counselor and told them you wanted
to become a chemist, and they said, "No, it's for boys. Boys do science." Did that make you even more
determined to study science and to succeed in that field? How did you respond to that? AGF: Well, to begin with, I must say, before I came
to that career guidance officer, I had great teachers who motivated. And this is something I would like
to draw attention to again, to our education system. We have to do away
with this rote learning. We have to ensure that we drive
this curiosity in the child, and they need to be curious. And if we want to move along the line
for them to become great scientists, they need to become more and more
curious in everything they do. So every time -- exactly --
I went to see the careers guidance, he looked at me and said,
"What do you want to do?" I said, "I want to study chemistry." "Well, you shouldn't study chemistry
because this is for boys. And the next thing, when you come
back, there'll be no job for you." So I went back home, and I had a great cheerleader at home
who happens to be my father. He said, "What do you want to do?"
and asked, "What did he say?" I said, "This is what he said ..."
He said, "What are you going to do?" I said, "I'm going to do chemistry." So there I was. And one thing I will say:
one must always follow your heart. And my heart was always in chemistry. I did what I was passionate about, and I thought at some point
that I had developed this thinking that if you're passionate
about what you do, you will not have to work
a single day in your life, until I realized it was
Confucius who said that. (Laughter) SB: So do you feel a responsibility,
as someone in your position, to encourage young girls,
especially on this continent, to study STEM subjects? Is that something
that you actively work -- AGF: You know, over the past
two days, Stephanie, we've been hearing a lot of conversation about the sustainable development goals. We've seen that, for example, Africa must be food secure, Africa must be energy secure, Africa must be water secure. If we want to get
to that level of development -- Agenda 2030 is not very far away -- if you want to have success, we need to have
an educated youth in Africa. 