So, why does good sex so often fade, even for couples who continue
to love each other as much as ever? And why does good intimacy
not guarantee good sex, contrary to popular belief? Or, the next question would be, can we want what we already have? That's the million-dollar question, right? And why is the forbidden so erotic? What is it about transgression
that makes desire so potent? And why does sex make babies, and babies spell erotic
disaster in couples? (Laughter) It's kind of the fatal
erotic blow, isn't it? And when you love, how does it feel? And when you desire, how is it different? These are some of the questions that are at the center of my exploration
on the nature of erotic desire and its concomitant
dilemmas in modern love. So I travel the globe, and what I'm noticing is that everywhere
where romanticism has entered, there seems to be a crisis of desire. A crisis of desire,
as in owning the wanting -- desire as an expression
of our individuality, of our free choice,
of our preferences, of our identity -- desire that has become a central concept as part of modern love
and individualistic societies. You know, this is the first time
in the history of humankind where we are trying to experience
sexuality in the long term not because we want 14 children, for which we need to have even more
because many of them won't make it, and not because it is exclusively
a woman's marital duty. This is the first time
that we want sex over time about pleasure and connection
that is rooted in desire. So what sustains desire,
and why is it so difficult? And at the heart of sustaining
desire in a committed relationship, I think, is the reconciliation
of two fundamental human needs. On the one hand, our need
for security, for predictability, for safety, for dependability, for reliability, for permanence. All these anchoring,
grounding experiences of our lives that we call home. But we also have an equally
strong need -- men and women -- for adventure, for novelty, for mystery, for risk, for danger, for the unknown,
for the unexpected, surprise -- you get the gist. For journey, for travel. So reconciling our need for security
and our need for adventure into one relationship, or what we today like to call
a passionate marriage, used to be a contradiction in terms. Marriage was an economic institution in which you were
given a partnership for life in terms of children and social status and succession and companionship. But now we want our partner
to still give us all these things, but in addition I want you
to be my best friend and my trusted confidant
and my passionate lover to boot, and we live twice as long. (Laughter) So we come to one person,
and we basically are asking them to give us what once
an entire village used to provide. Give me belonging, give me identity, give me continuity, but give me transcendence
and mystery and awe all in one. Give me comfort, give me edge. Give me novelty, give me familiarity. Give me predictability, give me surprise. And we think it's a given, and toys and lingerie
are going to save us with that. (Laughter) (Applause) So now we get to the existential
reality of the story, right? Because I think, in some way -- and I'll come back to that -- but the crisis of desire
is often a crisis of the imagination. So why does good sex so often fade? What is the relationship
between love and desire? How do they relate,
and how do they conflict? Because therein lies
the mystery of eroticism. So if there is a verb, for me,
that comes with love, it's "to have." And if there is a verb that comes
with desire, it is "to want." In love, we want to have,
we want to know the beloved. We want to minimize the distance. We want to contract that gap. We want to neutralize the tensions. We want closeness. But in desire, we tend to not really want to go back
to the places we've already gone. Forgone conclusion
does not keep our interest. In desire, we want an Other, somebody on the other side
that we can go visit, that we can go spend some time with, that we can go see what goes on
in their red-light district. You know? In desire, we want a bridge to cross. Or in other words,
I sometimes say, fire needs air. Desire needs space. And when it's said like that,
it's often quite abstract. But then I took a question with me. And I've gone to more than 20 countries
in the last few years with "Mating in Captivity,"
and I asked people, when do you find yourself
most drawn to your partner? Not attracted sexually,
per Se, but most drawn. And across culture, across religion,
and across gender -- except for one -- there are a few answers
that just keep coming back. So the first group is: I am most drawn to my partner
when she is away, when we are apart, when we reunite. Basically, when I get back in touch with my ability to imagine myself
with my partner, when my imagination comes
back in the picture, and when I can root it
in absence and in longing, which is a major component of desire. But then the second group
is even more interesting. I am most drawn to my partner when I see him in the studio, when she is onstage, when he is in his element, when she's doing something
she's passionate about, when I see him at a party
and other people are really drawn to him, when I see her hold court. Basically, when I look at my partner
radiant and confident. Probably the biggest
turn-on across the board. Radiant, as in self-sustaining. I look at this person --
by the way, in desire people rarely talk about it,
when we are blended into one, five centimeters from each other. I don't know in inches how much that is. But it's also not when the other person
is that far apart that you no longer see them. It's when I'm looking at my partner
from a comfortable distance, where this person that is already
so familiar, so known, is momentarily once again
somewhat mysterious, somewhat elusive. 