I bet you're worried. (Laughter) I was worried. That's why I began this piece. I was worried about vaginas. I was worried what we think about vaginas and even more worried
that we don't think about them. I was worried about my own vagina. It needed a context, a culture,
a community of other vaginas. There is so much darkness
and secrecy surrounding them. Like the Bermuda Triangle,
nobody ever reports back from there. (Laughter) In the first place, it's not so easy
to even find your vagina. Women go days, weeks, months,
without looking at it. I interviewed a high-powered
businesswoman; she told me she didn't have time. "Looking at your vagina,"
she said, "is a full day's work." (Laughter) "You've got to get down there
on your back, in front of a mirror, full-length preferred. You've got to get in the perfect position
with the perfect light, which then becomes shadowed
by the angle you're at. You're twisting your head up,
arching your back, it's exhausting." She was busy; she didn't have time. So I decided to talk to women
about their vaginas. They began as casual vagina interviews, and they turned into vagina monologues. I talked with over 200 women. I talked to older women, younger women, married women, lesbians, single women. I talked to corporate professionals,
college professors, actors, sex workers. I talked to African-American women,
Asian-American women, Native-American women,
Caucasian women, Jewish women. OK, at first women were a little shy,
a little reluctant to talk. Once they got going,
you couldn't stop them. Women love to talk
about their vaginas, they do. Mainly because no one's ever
asked them before. (Laughter) Let's just start with the word
"vagina" -- vagina, vagina. It sounds like an infection, at best. Maybe a medical instrument. "Hurry, nurse, bring the vagina!" (Laughter) Vagina, vagina, vagina. It doesn't matter how many times
you say the word, it never sounds like a word
you want to say. It's a completely ridiculous,
totally un-sexy word. If you use it during sex,
trying to be politically correct, "Darling, would you stroke my vagina," you kill the act right there. (Laughter) I'm worried what we call them
and don't call them. In Great Neck, New York,
they call it a Pussycat. A woman told me there
her mother used to tell her, "Don't wear panties, dear,
underneath your pajamas. You need to air out your Pussycat." (Laughter) In Westchester, they call it a Pooki, in New Jersey, a twat. There's Powderbox, derriere,
a Pooky, a Poochi, a Poopi, a Poopelu, a Pooninana,
a Padepachetchki, a Pal, and a Piche. (Laughter) There's Toadie, Dee Dee, Nishi,
Dignity, Coochi Snorcher, Cooter, Labbe, Gladys Seagelman, VA, Wee wee, Horsespot, Nappy Dugout, Mongo, Ghoulie, Powderbox,
a Mimi in Miami, a Split Knish in Philadelphia ... (Laughter) and a Schmende in the Bronx. (Laughter) I am worried about vaginas. This is how the "Vagina
Monologues" begins. But it really didn't begin there. It began with a conversation with a woman. We were having a conversation
about menopause, and we got onto the subject of her vagina, which you'll do if you're
talking about menopause. And she said things that really
shocked me about her vagina -- that it was dried-up
and finished and dead -- and I was kind of shocked. So I said to a friend casually, "Well, what do you think
about your vagina?" And that woman said
something more amazing, and then the next woman said
something more amazing, and before I knew it,
every woman was telling me I had to talk to somebody
about their vagina because they had an amazing story, and I was sucked down the vagina trail. (Laughter) And I really haven't gotten off of it. I think if you had told me
when I was younger that I was going to grow up,
and be in shoe stores, and people would scream out,
"There she is, the Vagina Lady!" I don't know that that would have
been my life ambition. (Laughter) But I want to talk a little bit
about happiness, and the relationship
to this whole vagina journey, because it has been
an extraordinary journey that began eight years ago. I think before I did
the "Vagina Monologues," I didn't really believe in happiness. I thought that only idiots
were happy, to be honest. I remember when I started
practicing Buddhism 14 years ago, and I was told that the end
of this practice was to be happy, I said, "How could you be happy
and live in this world of suffering and live in this world of pain?" I mistook happiness
for a lot of other things, like numbness or decadence or selfishness. And what happened through the course
of the "Vagina Monologues" and this journey is,
I think I have come to understand a little bit more about happiness. There are three qualities
I want to talk about. One is seeing what's
right in front of you, and talking about it, and stating it. I think what I learned
from talking about the vagina and speaking about the vagina,
is it was the most obvious thing -- it was right in the center of my body
and the center of the world -- and yet it was the one thing
nobody talked about. The second thing is that what talking
about the vagina did is it opened this door
which allowed me to see that there was a way to serve
the world to make it better. And that's where the deepest happiness
has actually come from. And the third principle of happiness,
which I've realized recently: Eight years ago, this momentum
and this energy, this "V-wave" started -- and I can only describe it
as a "V-wave" because, to be honest, I really don't understand it completely;
I feel at the service of it. But this wave started,
and if I question the wave, or try to stop the wave
or look back at the wave, I often have the experience of whiplash or the potential of my neck breaking. But if I go with the wave, and I trust the wave
and I move with the wave, I go to the next place, and it happens
logically and organically and truthfully. And I started this piece, particularly
with stories and narratives, and I was talking to one woman
and that led to another woman and that led to another woman. And then I wrote those stories down, and I put them out
in front of other people. And every single time
I did the show at the beginning, women would literally
line up after the show, because they wanted
to tell me their stories. And at first I thought, "Oh great,
I'll hear about wonderful orgasms, and great sex lives, and how women
love their vaginas." But in fact, that's not
what women lined up to tell me. What women lined up to tell me
was how they were raped, and how they were battered,
and how they were beaten, and how they were gang-raped
in parking lots, and how they were incested
by their uncles. And I wanted to stop doing
the "Vagina Monologues," because it felt too daunting. I felt like a war photographer
who takes pictures of terrible events, but doesn't intervene on their behalf. And so in 1997, I said,
"Let's get women together. What could we do with this information that all these women are being violated?" And it turned out, after thinking
and investigating, that I discovered -- and the UN
has actually said this recently -- that one out of every three
women on this planet will be beaten or raped in her lifetime. That's essentially a gender; that's essentially the resource
of the planet, which is women. So in 1997 we got all these incredible
women together and we said, "How can we use the play, this energy,
to stop violence against women?" And we put on one event
in New York City, in the theater, and all these great actors
came -- from Susan Sarandon, to Glenn Close, to Whoopi Goldberg -- and we did one performance on one evening, and that catalyzed this wave, this energy. And within five years, this extraordinary thing began to happen. One woman took that energy and she said,
"I want to bring this wave, this energy, to college campuses," and so she took the play and she said, "Let's use the play and have
performances once a year, where we can raise money
to stop violence against women in local communities
all around the world." And in one year, it went to 50 colleges,
and then it expanded. And over the course of the last six years, it's spread and it's spread
and it's spread around the world. What I have learned is two things: one, that the epidemic of violence
towards women is shocking; it's global; it is so profound
and it is so devastating, and it is so in every little pocket
of every little crater, of every little society
that we don't even recognize it, because it's become ordinary. This journey has taken me to Afghanistan, where I had the extraordinary
honor and privilege to go into parts of Afghanistan
under the Taliban. I was dressed in a burqa and I went in
with an extraordinary group, called the Revolutionary Association
of the Women of Afghanistan. And I saw firsthand
how women had been stripped of every single right that was possible
to strip women of -- from being educated, to being employed, to being actually allowed
to eat ice cream. For those of you who don't know, it was illegal to eat ice cream
under the Taliban. And I actually saw and met
women who had been flogged for being caught eating vanilla ice cream. I was taken to the secret ice cream-eating
place in a little town, where we went to a back room,
and women were seated and a curtain was pulled around us,
and they were served vanilla ice cream. And women lifted their burqas
and ate this ice cream. And I don't think I ever understood
pleasure until that moment, and how women have found a way
to keep their pleasure alive. It has taken me, this journey,
to Islamabad, where I have witnessed and met women
with their faces melted off. It has taken me to Juarez, Mexico,
where I was a week ago, where I have literally been
there in parking lots, where bones of women have washed up and been dumped next to Coca-Cola bottles. It has taken me to universities
all over this country, where girls are date-raped and drugged. I have seen terrible, terrible,
terrible violence. But I have also recognized,
in the course of seeing that violence, that being in the face of things
and seeing actually what's in front of us is the antidote to depression, and to a feeling that one
is worthless and has no value. Because before the "Vagina Monologues," I will say that 80 percent
of my consciousness was closed off to what was really going on
in this reality, and that closing-off closed off
my vitality and my life energy. What has also happened
is in the course of these travels -- and it's been an extraordinary thing -- is that every single place
that I have gone to in the world, I have met a new species. And I really love hearing about all
these species at the bottom of the sea. And I was thinking about how being
with these extraordinary people on this particular panel, that it's beneath, beyond and between, and the vagina kind of fits
into all those categories. (Laughter) But one of the things
I've seen is this species -- and it is a species,
and it is a new paradigm, and it doesn't get reported
in the press or in the media because I don't think
good news ever is news, and I don't think people
who are transforming the planet are what gets the ratings on TV shows. But every single country I have been to -- and in the last six years,
I've been to about 45 countries, and many tiny little villages
and cities and towns -- I have seen something what I've come
to call "vagina warriors." A "vagina warrior" is a woman,
or a vagina-friendly man, who has witnessed incredible
violence or suffered it, and rather than getting an AK-47
or a weapon of mass destruction or a machete, they hold the violence in their bodies; they grieve it; they experience it;
and then they go out and devote their lives to making sure
it doesn't happen to anybody else. I have met these women
everywhere on the planet, and I want to tell a few stories, because I believe that stories are the way
that we transmit information, where it goes into our bodies. And I think one of the things about being
at TED that's been very interesting is that I live in my body a lot, and I don't live in my head
very much anymore. And this is a very heady place. And it's been really interesting
to be in my head for the last two days;
I've been very disoriented -- (Laughter) because I think the world, the V-world,
is very much in your body. It's a body world, and the species
really exists in the body. And I think there's a real significance
in us attaching our bodies to our heads, that that separation has created a divide that is often separating
purpose from intent. And the connection between body and head often brings those things into union. I want to talk about three
particular people that I've met, vagina warriors, who really
transformed my understanding of this whole principle and species, and one is a woman named Marsha Lopez. Marsha Lopez was a woman
I met in Guatemala. She was 14 years old,
and she was in a marriage and her husband was beating her
on a regular basis. And she couldn't get out, because she was addicted
to the relationship, and she had no money. Her sister was younger than her,
and she applied -- we had a "Stop Rape" contest
a few years ago in New York -- and she applied, hoping
that she would become a finalist and she could bring her sister. She did become a finalist;
she brought Marsha to New York. And at that time, we did this extraordinary V-Day
at Madison Square Garden, where we sold out the entire
testosterone-filled dome -- 18,000 people standing up
to say "Yes" to vaginas, which was really a pretty
incredible transformation. And she came, and she witnessed this, and she decided that she would go back
and leave her husband, and that she would bring
V-Day to Guatemala. She was 21 years old. I went to Guatemala and she had sold out
the National Theater of Guatemala. And I watched her walk up on stage
in her red short dress and high heels, and she stood there and said,
"My name is Marsha. I was beaten by my husband for five years.
He almost murdered me. I left and you can, too." And the entire 2,000 people
went absolutely crazy. 