Here are two reasons companies fail: they only do more of the same, or they only do what's new. To me the real, real
solution to quality growth is figuring out the balance
between two activities: exploration and exploitation. Both are necessary, but it can be too much of a good thing. Consider Facit. I'm actually old enough to remember them. Facit was a fantastic company. They were born deep in the Swedish forest, and they made the best
mechanical calculators in the world. Everybody used them. And what did Facit do when
the electronic calculator came along? They continued doing exactly the same. In six months, they went
from maximum revenue ... and they were gone. Gone. To me, the irony about the Facit story is hearing about the Facit engineers, who had bought cheap, small
electronic calculators in Japan that they used to double-check
their calculators. (Laughter) Facit did too much exploitation. But exploration can go wild, too. A few years back, I worked closely alongside
a European biotech company. Let's call them OncoSearch. The company was brilliant. They had applications that promised
to diagnose, even cure, certain forms of blood cancer. Every day was about
creating something new. They were extremely innovative, and the mantra was,
"When we only get it right," or even, "We want it perfect." The sad thing is, before they became perfect -- even good enough -- they became obsolete. OncoSearch did too much exploration. I first heard about exploration
and exploitation about 15 years ago, when I worked as a visiting
scholar at Stanford University. The founder of the idea is Jim March. And to me the power of the idea
is its practicality. Exploration. Exploration is about
coming up with what's new. It's about search, it's about discovery, it's about new products, it's about new innovations. It's about changing our frontiers. Our heroes are people
who have done exploration: Madame Curie, Picasso, Neil Armstrong, Sir Edmund Hillary, etc. I come from Norway; all our heroes are explorers,
and they deserve to be. We all know that exploration is risky. We don't know the answers, we don't know if we're going to find them, and we know that the risks are high. Exploitation is the opposite. Exploitation is taking
the knowledge we have and making good, better. Exploitation is about making
our trains run on time. It's about making good products
faster and cheaper. Exploitation is not risky -- in the short term. But if we only exploit, it's very risky in the long term. And I think we all have memories
of the famous pop groups who keep singing the same songs
again and again, until they become obsolete
or even pathetic. That's the risk of exploitation. So if we take a long-term
perspective, we explore. If we take a short-term
perspective, we exploit. Small children, they explore all day. All day it's about exploration. As we grow older, we explore less because we have
more knowledge to exploit on. The same goes for companies. Companies become,
by nature, less innovative as they become more competent. And this is, of course,
a big worry to CEOs. And I hear very often questions
phrased in different ways. For example, "How can I both effectively run
and reinvent my company?" Or, "How can I make sure that our company changes
before we become obsolete or are hit by a crisis?" So, doing one well is difficult. Doing both well as the same time is art -- pushing both exploration and exploitation. So one thing we've found is only about two percent of companies
are able to effectively explore and exploit at the same time, in parallel. But when they do, the payoffs are huge. So we have lots of great examples. 