We can cut violent deaths
around the world by 50 percent in the next three decades. All we have to do
is drop killing by 2.3 percent a year, and we'll hit that target. You don't believe me? Well, the leading epidemiologists
and criminologists around the world seem to think we can, and so do I, but only if we focus on our cities,
especially the most fragile ones. You see, I've been thinking
about this a lot. For the last 20 years, I've been working in countries and cities
ripped apart by conflict, violence, terrorism, or some
insidious combination of all. I've tracked gun smugglers
from Russia to Somalia, I've worked with warlords
in Afghanistan and the Congo, I've counted cadavers in Colombia, in 
Haiti, in Sri Lanka, in Papua New Guinea. You don't need to be
on the front line, though, to get a sense that our planet
is spinning out of control, right? There's this feeling that international
instability is the new normal. But I want you to take a closer look, and I think you'll see that
the geography of violence is changing, because it's not so much our nation states
that are gripped by conflict and crime as our cities: Aleppo, Bamako, Caracas, 
Erbil, Mosul, Tripoli, Salvador. Violence is migrating to the metropole. And maybe this is to be expected, right? After all, most people today,
they live in cities, not the countryside. Just 600 cities, including 30 megacities,
account for two thirds of global GDP. But when it comes to cities, the conversation is
dominated by the North, that is, North America, Western Europe,
Australia and Japan, where violence is 
actually at historic lows. As a result, city enthusiasts, they talk
about the triumph of the city, of the creative classes, and the mayors
that will rule the world. Now, I hope that mayors
do one day rule the world, but, you know, the fact is, we don't hear any conversation, really,
about what is happening in the South. And by South, I mean
Latin America, Africa, Asia, where violence in some
cases is accelerating, where infrastructure is overstretched, and where governance is sometimes
an aspiration and not a reality. Now, some diplomats
and development experts and specialists, they talk about 40 to 50 fragile states that will shape security
in the 21st century. I think it's fragile cities which will
define the future of order and disorder. That's because warfare
and humanitarian action are going to be
concentrated in our cities, and the fight for development, whether you define that
as eradicating poverty, universal healthcare,
beating back climate change, will be won or lost in the shantytowns,
slums and favelas of our cities. I want to talk to you about four megarisks that I think will define
fragility in our time, and if we can get to grips with these, I think we can do something
with that lethal violence problem. So let me start with some good news. Fact is, we're living in the most
peaceful moment in human history. Steven Pinker and others have shown how
the intensity and frequency of conflict is actually at an all-time low. Now, Gaza, Syria, Sudan, Ukraine, as ghastly as these conflicts are,
and they are horrific, they represent a relatively
small blip upwards in a 50-year-long secular decline. What's more, we're seeing
a dramatic reduction in homicide. Manuel Eisner and others have shown that for centuries, we've seen
this incredible drop in murder, especially in the West. Most Northern cities today are 100 times
safer than they were just 100 years ago. These two facts -- the decline in armed 
conflict and the decline in murder -- are amongst the most extraordinary, if unheralded, accomplishments
of human history, and we should be really excited, right? Well, yeah, we should. There's just one problem:
These two scourges are still with us. You see, 525,000 people --
men, women, boys and girls -- die violently every single year. Research I've been doing
with Keith Krause and others has shown that between 50,000 and 60,000
people are dying in war zones violently. The rest, almost 500,000 people,
are dying outside of conflict zones. In other words, 10 times more people
are dying outside of war than inside war. What's more, violence is moving south,
 to Latin America and the Caribbean, to parts of Central and Southern Africa, and to bits of the Middle East
and Central Asia. Forty of the 50 most dangerous 
cities in the world are right here in Latin America, 13 in Brazil, and the most dangerous of all, it's 
San Pedro Sula, Honduras' second city, with a staggering homicide rate
of 187 murders per 100,000 people. That's 23 times the global average. Now, if violence is
re-concentrating geographically, it's also being reconfigured
to the world's new topography, because when it comes to cities,
the world ain't flat, like Thomas Friedman likes to say. It's spiky. The dominance of the city
as the primary mode of urban living is one of the most extraordinary
demographic reversals in history, and it all happened so fast. You all know the figures, right? There's 7.3 billion people
in the world today; there will be 9.6 billion by 2050. But consider this one fact: In the 1800s, one in 30
people lived in cities, today it's one in two, and tomorrow virtually everyone
is going to be there. And this expansion in urbanization
is going to be neither even nor equitable. The vast majority, 90 percent, will be happening in the South,
in cities of the South. So urban geographers and demographers, they tell us that it's not necessarily
the size or even the density of cities that predicts violence, no. Tokyo, with 35 million people, is one of the largest, and some might say
safest, urban metropolises in the world. No, it's the speed of
urbanization that matters. I call this turbo-urbanization, and it's 
one of the key drivers of fragility. When you think about the incredible
expansion of these cities, and you think about turbo-urbanization,
think about Karachi. Karachi was about 500,000 people in 1947,
a hustling, bustling city. Today, it's 21 million people, and apart from accounting
for three quarters of Pakistan's GDP, it's also one of the most violent
cities in South Asia. Dhaka, Lagos, Kinshasa, these cities are now 40 times larger
than they were in the 1950s. Now take a look at New York. The Big Apple, it took 150 years
to get to eight million people. 