Imagine that when you walked
in here this evening, you discovered that everybody in the room
looked almost exactly the same: ageless, raceless, generically good-looking. That person sitting right next to you might have the most
idiosyncratic inner life, but you don't have a clue because we're all wearing
the same blank expression all the time. That is the kind of creepy transformation
that is taking over cities, only it applies to buildings, not people. Cities are full of roughness and shadow, texture and color. You can still find architectural surfaces
of great individuality and character in apartment buildings in Riga and Yemen, social housing in Vienna, Hopi villages in Arizona, brownstones in New York, wooden houses in San Francisco. These aren't palaces or cathedrals. These are just ordinary residences expressing the ordinary
splendor of cities. And the reason they're like that
is that the need for shelter is so bound up with
the human desire for beauty. Their rough surfaces
give us a touchable city. Right? Streets that you can read by running your fingers
over brick and stone. But that's getting harder to do, because cities are becoming smooth. New downtowns sprout towers that are almost always
made of concrete and steel and covered in glass. You can look at skylines
all over the world -- Houston, Guangzhou, Frankfurt -- and you see the same army
of high-gloss robots marching over the horizon. Now, just think of everything we lose when architects stop using
the full range of available materials. When we reject granite
and limestone and sandstone and wood and copper
and terra-cotta and brick and wattle and plaster, we simplify architecture and we impoverish cities. It's as if you reduced
all of the world's cuisines down to airline food. (Laughter) Chicken or pasta? But worse still, assemblies of glass towers
like this one in Moscow suggest a disdain for the civic
and communal aspects of urban living. Right? Buildings like these are intended
to enrich their owners and tenants, but not necessarily
the lives of the rest of us, those of us who navigate
the spaces between the buildings. And we expect to do so for free. Shiny towers are an invasive species and they are choking our cities
and killing off public space. We tend to think of a facade
as being like makeup, a decorative layer applied at the end
to a building that's effectively complete. But just because a facade is superficial doesn't mean it's not also deep. Let me give you an example of how a city's surfaces
affect the way we live in it. When I visited Salamanca in Spain, I gravitated to the Plaza Mayor at all hours of the day. Early in the morning,
sunlight rakes the facades, sharpening shadows, and at night, lamplight
segments the buildings into hundreds of distinct areas, balconies and windows and arcades, each one a separate pocket
of visual activity. That detail and depth, that glamour gives the plaza a theatrical quality. It becomes a stage
where the generations can meet. You have teenagers
sprawling on the pavers, seniors monopolizing the benches, and real life starts to look
like an opera set. The curtain goes up on Salamanca. So just because I'm talking
about the exteriors of buildings, not form, not function, not structure, even so those surfaces
give texture to our lives, because buildings
create the spaces around them, and those spaces can draw people in or push them away. And the difference often has to do
with the quality of those exteriors. So one contemporary equivalent
of the Plaza Mayor in Salamanca 