What if I could present you a story that you would remember
with your entire body and not just with your mind? My whole life as a journalist,
I've really been compelled to try to make stories
that can make a difference and maybe inspire people to care. I've worked in print.
I've worked in documentary. I've worked in broadcast. But it really wasn't until
I got involved with virtual reality that I started seeing
these really intense, authentic reactions from people that really blew my mind. So the deal is that with VR,
virtual reality, I can put you on scene in the middle of the story. By putting on these goggles
that track wherever you look, you get this whole-body sensation, like you're actually, like, there. So five years ago was about when
I really began to push the envelope with using virtual reality
and journalism together. And I wanted to do a piece about hunger. Families in America are going hungry,
food banks are overwhelmed, and they're often running out of food. Now, I knew I couldn't
make people feel hungry, but maybe I could figure out a way
to get them to feel something physical. So -- again, this is five years ago -- so doing journalism
and virtual reality together was considered
a worse-than-half-baked idea, and I had no funding. Believe me, I had a lot
of colleagues laughing at me. And I did, though,
have a really great intern, a woman named Michaela Kobsa-Mark. And together we went out to food banks and started recording
audio and photographs. Until one day she came back to my office and she was bawling, she was just crying. She had been on scene at a long line, where the woman running the line
was feeling extremely overwhelmed, and she was screaming,
"There's too many people! There's too many people!" And this man with diabetes
doesn't get food in time, his blood sugar drops too low,
and he collapses into a coma. As soon as I heard that audio, I knew that this would be
the kind of evocative piece that could really describe
what was going on at food banks. So here's the real line.
You can see how long it was, right? And again, as I said, we didn't
have very much funding, so I had to reproduce it
with virtual humans that were donated, and people begged and borrowed favors
to help me create the models and make things as accurate as we could. And then we tried to convey
what happened that day with as much as accuracy as is possible. (Video) Voice: There's too many people!
There's too many people! Voice: OK, he's having a seizure. Voice: We need an ambulance. 