If you've been thinking about US politics and trying to make sense of it
for the last year or so, you might have hit on something
like the following three propositions: one, US partisanship
has never been so bad before; two, for the first time,
it's geographically spatialized -- we're divided between the coasts,
which want to look outwards, and the center of the country,
which wants to look inwards; and third, there's nothing we can do about it. I'm here to today to say
that all three of these propositions, all of which sound reasonable, are not true. In fact, our US partisanship goes all the way back to the very beginning of the republic. It was geographically spatialized
in almost eerily the same way that it is today, and it often has been
throughout US history. And last, and by far most importantly, we actually have
an extraordinary mechanism that's designed to help us manage
factional disagreement and partisanship. That technology is the Constitution. And this is an evolving, subtly,
supplely designed entity that has the specific purpose of teaching us how to manage
factional disagreement where it's possible to do that, and giving us techniques
for overcoming that disagreement when that's possible. Now, in order to tell you the story, I want to go back
to a pivotal moment in US history, and that is the moment when factional disagreement
and partisanship was born. There actually was a birth moment -- a moment in US history
when partisanship snapped into place. The person who's at the core
of that story is James Madison. And at the moment that this began, James Madison was riding high. He himself was the Einstein
of not only the US Constitution, but of constitutional thought
more globally, and, to give him his due, he knew it. In a period of time of just three years, from 1785 to 1788, he had conceived, theorized,
designed, passed and gotten ratified the US Constitution. And just to give you
some sense of the enormity of what that accomplishment actually was, although Madison
couldn't have known it at the time, today that same constitutional technology
that he invented is still in use not only in the US, but, 230 years later, in places like Canada, India, South Africa, Brazil. So in an extraordinary range
of contexts all over the world, this technology is still the dominant, most used, most effective technology
to manage governance. In that moment, Madison believed that,
having solved this problem, the country would run smoothly, and that he had designed a technology that would minimize
the results of factions so there would be no political parties. Remarkably, he thought
he had designed a constitution that was against political parties and would make them unnecessary. He had gotten an enormous degree of help in the final marketing phase
of his constitutional project from a man you may have heard of,
called Alexander Hamilton. Now, Hamilton was everything
Madison was not. He was passionate,
where Madison was restrained. He was pansexual, where Madison didn't speak
to a woman expect for once until he was 42 years old, and then married Dolley
and lived happily ever after for 40 years. (Laughter) To put it bluntly, Hamilton's the kind of person about whom you would write
a hip-hop musical -- (Laughter) and Madison is the kind of person about whom you would not write
a hip-hop musical. (Laughter) Or indeed, a musical of any kind at all. But together, they had become a rather unlikely pairing, and they had produced
the Federalist Papers, which offered a justification and, as I mentioned, a marketing plan for the Constitution, which had been wildly effective
and wildly successful. Once the new government was in place, Hamilton became Secretary of the Treasury, and he had a very specific idea in mind. And that was to do for financial institutions
and infrastructure exactly what Madison had done
for constitutions. Again, his contemporaries all knew it. One of them told Madison, who can't have liked it very much, that Hamilton was the Newton
of infrastructure. The idea was pretty straightforward. Hamilton would give
the United States a national bank, a permanent national debt -- he said it would be
"immortal," his phrase -- and a manufacturing policy
that would enable trade and manufacturing rather than agriculture, which was where the country's primary
wealth had historically been. Madison went utterly ballistic. And in this pivotal, critical decision, instead of just telling the world
that his old friend Hamilton was wrong and was adopting the wrong policies, he actually began to argue that Hamilton's ideas
were unconstitutional -- that they violated the very nature
of the Constitution that the two of them had drafted together. Hamilton responded
the way you would expect. He declared Madison to be
his "personal and political enemy" -- these are his words. So these two founders who had been
such close friends and such close allies and such partners, then began to produce enmity. And they did it in the good,
old-fashioned way. First, they founded political parties. Madison created a party originally called
the Democratic Republican Party -- "Republican" for short -- and Hamilton created a party
called the Federalist Party. Those two parties adopted
positions on national politics that were extreme and exaggerated. To give you a clear example: Madison, who had always believed that the country would have
some manufacturing and some trade and some agriculture, began attacking Hamilton as a kind of tool of the financial markets whom Hamilton himself intended
to put in charge of the country. That was an overstatement, but it was something
Madison came to believe. He also attacked city life, and he said that the coasts were corrupt, and what people needed to do
was to look inwards to the center of the country, to farmers, who were the essence
of Republican virtue, and they should go back to the values
that had made American great, specifically the values of the Revolution, and those were the values of low taxes, agriculture and less trade. 