Basking sharks are awesome creatures. They are just magnificent. They grow 10 meters long; some say bigger. They might weigh up to two tons. Some say up to five tons. They're the second-largest
fish in the world. They're also harmless
plankton-feeding animals. And they are thought to be able to filter
a cubic kilometer of water every hour and can feed on 30 kilos
of zoo plankton a day to survive. They're fantastic creatures. We're very lucky in Ireland, we have plenty of basking sharks
and plenty of opportunities to study them. They were very important
to coastal communities, going back hundreds of years, especially around
the Claddaghduff, Connemara region where subsistence farmers used to sail
out on their hookers and open boats, sometimes way offshore
to a place called the Sunfish Bank, about 30 miles west of Achill Island, to kill the basking sharks. This is a woodcut from about the 1800s. They were very important,
for the oil out of their liver. A third of the basking
shark's size is their liver, and it's full of oil, gallons of oil. That oil was used especially for lighting, but also for dressing wounds
and other things. In fact, the streetlights in 1742, of Galway, Dublin and Waterford, were lit with sunfish oil. "Sunfish" is one of the words
for basking sharks. So they were incredibly important animals. They've been around a long time,
very important to coastal communities. Probably the best-documented
basking shark fishery in the world is that from Achill Island. This is Keem Bay up in Achill Island. Sharks used to come into the bay, and the fishermen
would tie a net off the headland, string it out, an old Manila net, and as the shark came round,
it would hit the net, the net would collapse on it. It would often drown and suffocate. Or at times, they would row out
in their small curraghs and kill it with a lance
through the back of the neck. And then they'd tow the sharks
back to Purteen Harbour, boil them up, use the oil. They also used the flesh
as well, for fertilizer and also would fin the sharks. This is probably the biggest threat
to sharks worldwide -- the finning of sharks. We're often frightened
of sharks, thanks to "Jaws." Maybe five or six people
get killed by sharks every year. There was someone recently, wasn't there?
Just a couple weeks ago. We kill about 100 million sharks a year. So I don't know what the balance is, but I think sharks have more right
to be fearful of us than we have of them. It was a well-documented fishery. As you can see here,
it peaked in the '50s, where they were killing
1,500 sharks a year. And it declined very fast --
a classic boom-and-bust fishery, which suggests that a stock
has been depleted or there's low reproductive rates. They killed about 12,000 sharks
within this period, literally just by stringing a Manila rope off the tip of Keem Bay
up in Achill Island. Sharks were still killed
up into the mid-80s, especially out of places
like Dunmore East in County Waterford. About two and a half, 3,000
sharks were killed up till '85, mainly by Norwegian vessels. You can't really see, but these are Norwegian
basking shark hunting vessels. The black line in the crow's nest
signifies this is a shark vessel, rather than a whaling vessel. The importance of basking sharks
to the coast communities is recognized through the language. I don't pretend
to [know many Irish words], but in Kerry they were often
known as "ainmhide Na seolta," "the monster with the sails." 