I'm going to have a pretty simple idea that I'm just going to tell you over and over until I get you to believe it, and that is all of us are makers. I really believe that. All of us are makers. We're born makers. We have this ability to make things, to grasp things with our hands. We use words like "grasp" metaphorically to also think about understanding things. We don't just live, but we make. We create things. Well I'm going to show you a group of makers from Maker Faire and various places. It doesn't come out particularly well, but that's a particularly tall bicycle. It's a scraper bike; it's called -- from Oakland. And this is a particularly small scooter for a gentleman of this size. But he's trying to power it, or motorize it, with a drill. (Laughter) And the question he had is, "Can I do it? Can it be done?" Apparently it can. So makers are enthusiasts; they're amateurs; they're people who love doing what they do. They don't always even know why they're doing it. We have begun organizing makers at our Maker Faire. There was one held in Detroit here last summer, and it will be held again next summer, at the Henry Ford. But we hold them in San Francisco -- (Applause) -- and in New York. And it's a fabulous event to just meet and talk to these people who make things and are there to just show them to you and talk about them and have a great conversation. (Video) Guy: I might get one of those. Dale Dougherty: These are electric muffins. Guy: Where did you guys get those? Muffin: Will you glide with us? (Guy: No.) DD: I know Ford has new electric vehicles coming out. We got there first. Lady: Will you glide with us? DD: This is something I call "swinging in the rain." And you can barely see it, but it's -- a controller at top cycles the water to fall just before and after you pass through the bottom of the arc. So imagine a kid: "Am I going to get wet? Am I going to get wet? No, I didn't get wet. Am I going to get wet? Am I going to get wet?" That's the experience of a clever ride. And of course, we have fashion. People are remaking things into fashion. I don't know if this is called a basket-bra, but it ought to be something like that. We have art students getting together, taking old radiator parts and doing an iron-pour to make something new out of it. They did that in the summer, and it was very warm. Now this one takes a little bit of explaining. You know what those are, right? Billy-Bob, or Billy Bass, or something like that. Now the background is -- the guy who did this is a physicist. And here he'll explain a little bit about what it does. (Video) Richard Carter: I'm Richard Carter, and this is the Sashimi Tabernacle Choir. 