2014 is a very special year for me: 20 years as a consultant, 20 years of marriage, and I'm turning 50 in one month. That means I was born in 1964
in a small town in Germany. It was a gray November day, and I was overdue. The hospital's maternity ward
was really stressed out because a lot of babies were born
on this gray November day. As a matter of fact, 1964 was the year with the highest
birth rate ever in Germany: more than 1.3 million. Last year, we just hit over 600,000, so half of my number. What you can see here
is the German age pyramid, and there, the small black point
at the top, that's me. (Laughter) (Applause) In red, you can see the potential
working-age population, so people over 15 and under 65, and I'm actually only interested
in this red area. Now, let's do a simple simulation of how this age structure will develop
over the next couple of years. As you can see, the peak is moving to the right, and I, with many other baby boomers,
will retire in 2030. By the way, I don't need any forecasts of birth rates for predicting
this red area. The red area, so the potential
working-age population in 2030, is already set in stone today, except for much higher migration rates. And if you compare this red area in 2030
with the red area in 2014, it is much, much smaller. So before I show you
the rest of the world, what does this mean for Germany? So what we know from
this picture is that the labor supply, so people who provide labor, will go down in Germany,
and will go down significantly. Now, what about labor demand? That's where it gets tricky. As you might know, the consultant's
favorite answer to any question is, "It depends." So I would say it depends. We didn't want to forecast the future. Highly speculative. We did something else. We looked at the GDP
and productivity growth of Germany over the last 20 years, and calculated the following scenario: if Germany wants to continue
this GDP and productivity growth, we could directly calculate how many people Germany would need
to support this growth. And this is the green line: labor demand. So Germany will run into
a major talent shortage very quickly. Eight million people are missing, which is more than 20 percent
of our current workforce, so big numbers, really big numbers. And we calculated several scenarios, and the picture always looked like this. Now, to close the gap, Germany has to significantly
increase migration, get many more women in the workforce, 