(Singing) I see the moon.
The moon sees me. The moon sees somebody that I don't see. God bless the moon, and God bless me. And God bless the somebody
that I don't see. If I get to heaven, before you do, I'll make a hole and pull you through. And I'll write your name on every star, and that way the world won't seem so far. The astronaut will not be at work today. He has called in sick. He has turned off his cell phone,
his laptop, his pager, his alarm clock. There is a fat yellow cat
asleep on his couch, raindrops against the window and not even the hint
of coffee in the kitchen air. Everybody is in a tizzy. The engineers on the 15th floor have
stopped working on their particle machine. The anti-gravity room is leaking, and even the freckled kid with glasses, whose only job is to take
out the trash, is nervous, fumbles the bag, spills
a banana peel and a paper cup. Nobody notices. They are too busy recalculating
what this all mean for lost time. How many galaxies
are we losing per second? How long before next rocket
can be launched? Somewhere an electron
flies off its energy cloud. A black hole has erupted. A mother finishes setting
the table for dinner. A Law &amp; Order marathon is starting. The astronaut is asleep. He has forgotten to turn off his watch, which ticks, like a metal
pulse against his wrist. He does not hear it. He dreams of coral reefs and plankton. His fingers find
the pillowcase's sailing masts. He turns on his side,
opens his eyes at once. He thinks that scuba divers must have
the most wonderful job in the world. So much water to glide through! (Applause) Thank you. When I was little, I could
not understand the concept that you could only live one life. I don't mean this metaphorically. I mean, I literally thought
that I was going to get to do everything there was to do and be everything there was to be. It was only a matter of time. And there was no limitation
based on age or gender or race or even appropriate time period. I was sure that I was going
to actually experience what it felt like to be a leader
of the civil rights movement or a ten-year old boy living
on a farm during the dust bowl or an emperor of the Tang
dynasty in China. My mom says that when people asked me what I wanted to be when I grew up,
my typical response was: princess-ballerina-astronaut. And what she doesn't understand
is that I wasn't trying to invent some combined super profession. I was listing things I thought
I was gonna get to be: a princess and a ballerina
and an astronaut. and I'm pretty sure the list
probably went on from there. I usually just got cut off. It was never a question
of if I was gonna get to do something so much of a question of when. And I was sure that if I was going
to do everything, that it probably meant I had
to move pretty quickly, because there was a lot
of stuff I needed to do. So my life was constantly
in a state of rushing. I was always scared
that I was falling behind. And since I grew up
in New York City, as far as I could tell, rushing was pretty normal. But, as I grew up, I had
this sinking realization, that I wasn't gonna get to live
any more than one life. I only knew what it felt like
to be a teenage girl in New York City, not a teenage boy in New Zealand, not a prom queen in Kansas. I only got to see through my lens. And it was around this time
that I became obsessed with stories, because it was through stories
that I was able to see through someone else's lens,
however briefly or imperfectly. And I started craving hearing
other people's experiences because I was so jealous
that there were entire lives that I was never gonna get to live, and I wanted to hear
about everything that I was missing. And by transitive property, I realized that some people
were never gonna get to experience what it felt like to be a teenage girl
in New York city. Which meant that they weren't gonna know what the subway ride
after your first kiss feels like, or how quiet it gets when its snows. And I wanted them to know,
I wanted to tell them. And this became the focus of my obsession. I busied myself telling stories
and sharing stories and collecting them. And it's not until recently that I realized that
I can't always rush poetry. In April for National Poetry Month,
there's this challenge that many poets in the poetry
community participate in, and its called the 30/30 Challenge. The idea is you write a new poem every single day
for the entire month of April. And last year, I tried it
for the first time and was thrilled by the efficiency
at which I was able to produce poetry. But at the end of the month, I looked
back at these 30 poems I had written and discovered that they were
all trying to tell the same story, it had just taken me 30 tries to figure
out the way that it wanted to be told. And I realized that this is probably true
of other stories on an even larger scale. I have stories that I have
tried to tell for years, rewriting and rewriting and constantly
searching for the right words. 