Design is a slippery
and elusive phenomenon, which has meant different
things at different times. But all truly inspiring design projects
have one thing in common: they began with a dream. And the bolder the dream, the greater the design feat
that will be required to achieve it. And this is why the greatest
designers are almost always the biggest dreamers
and rebels and renegades. This has been the case throughout history, all the way back to the year 300 BC, when a 13-year-old became the king of a remote, very poor
and very small Asian country. He dreamt of acquiring land,
riches and power through military conquest. And his design skills -- improbable though it sounds -- would be essential
in enabling him to do so. At the time, all weapons were made by hand
to different specifications. So if an archer ran out
of arrows during a battle, they wouldn't necessarily be able
to fire another archer's arrows from their bow. This of course meant that they would
be less effective in combat and very vulnerable, too. Ying solved this problem by insisting that all bows and arrows
were designed identically, so they were interchangeable. And he did the same for daggers,
axes, spears, shields and every other form of weaponry. His formidably equipped army
won batter after battle, and within 15 years, his tiny kingdom had
succeeded in conquering all its larger, richer,
more powerful neighbors, to found the mighty Chinese Empire. Now, no one, of course, would have thought of describing
Ying Zheng as a designer at the time -- why would they? And yet he used design
unknowingly and instinctively but with tremendous ingenuity to achieve his ends. And so did another equally
improbable, accidental designer, who was also not above using
violence to get what he wanted. This was Edward Teach, better known
as the British pirate, Blackbeard. This was the golden age of piracy, where pirates like Teach
were terrorizing the high seas. Colonial trade was flourishing, and piracy was highly profitable. And the smarter pirates like him
realized that to maximize their spoils, they needed to attack
their enemies so brutally that they would surrender on sight. So in other words, they could take the ships
without wasting ammunition, or incurring casualties. So Edward Teach redesigned
himself as Blackbeard by playing the part of a merciless brute. He wore heavy jackets and big hats
to accentuate his height. He grew the bushy black beard
that obscured his face. He slung braces of pistols
on either shoulder. He even attached matches to the brim
of his hat and set them alight, so they sizzled menacingly
whenever his ship was poised to attack. And like many pirates of that era, he flew a flag that bore
the macabre symbols of a human skull
and a pair of crossed bones, because those motifs had signified death
in so many cultures for centuries, that their meaning
was instantly recognizable, even in the lawless, illiterate
world of the high seas: surrender or you'll suffer. So of course, all his sensible
victims surrendered on sight. Put like that, it's easy to see why Edward Teach
and his fellow pirates could be seen as pioneers
of modern communications design, and why their deadly symbol -- (Laughter) there's more -- why their deadly symbol
of the skull and crossbones was a precursor of today's logos, rather like the big red letters
standing behind me, but of course with a different message. (Laughter) Yet design was also used to nobler ends by an equally brilliant and equally
improbable designer, the 19th-century British nurse,
Florence Nightingale. Her mission was to provide
decent healthcare for everyone. Nightingale was born into a rather
grand, very wealthy British family, who were horrified when she volunteered
to work in military hospitals during the Crimean War. Once there, she swiftly realized that more patients were dying
of infections that they caught there, in the filthy, fetid wards, than they were of battle wounds. So she campaigned
for cleaner, lighter, airier clinics to be designed and built. Back in Britain, she mounted another campaign, this time for civilian hospitals, and insisted that the same design
principles were applied to them. The Nightingale ward, as it is called, dominated hospital design
for decades to come, and elements of it are still used today. But by then, design was seen as a tool
of the Industrial Age. It was formalized and professionalized, but it was restricted to specific roles and generally applied in pursuit
of commercial goals rather than being used intuitively, as Florence Nightingale, Blackbeard
and Ying Zheng had done. By the 20th century, this commercial ethos was so powerful, that any designers who deviated from it risked being seen as cranks
or subversives. Now among them is one
of my great design heroes, 